page in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan gilgit. cpla no. chief judge. judge. tajuddin gul alam sons of mir alam resident of chamogarh gilgit. (petitioner appellant) mst. zainab begum faqir muhammad. mst. nargis begum muhammad ilyas. mst. khalida khanum shereyar, all daughter of mir alam chamogarh tehsil gilgit. (respondents) eave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerments self governance) order, against the .. the chief court gilgit -baltistan in civil revision no. whereby the revision petition filed against judg ment of additional district .. and judgment of administrative civil .., passed in civil misc. no. has been dismissed up holding the above referred impugned judgment of subordinate court. for set ting aside the impugned judgment of learned chief court and subordinate courts by converting this leave to appeal into appeal and grant the application u ix rule section cpc filed by the petitioner in the trial court for setting a side ex -pare decree dated .. passed in civil suit no. for the ends of justice, law and equity. present: page date of hearing: .. judgment rana muha mmad arshad khan, cj: this leave to appeal has been directed against the .. the learned single -baltistan in civil revision petition no. whereby the civil revision petition filed against the .. the learned additional district the facts in brief as steamed out from the record are that respondent plaintiff instituted a suit on .. for declaration and permanent injunction while claiming possessio of the suit property, the detail of which has been given in the head note of the suit. the suit was numbered as civil suit no. which came up for hearing in the court of administrative civil ... it was set out in the plaint that the parties are real brothers and sisters inter as and the respondent plaintiff are legally entitled to get their shari share out of the legacy of their deceased father page namely mir alam. the petitioner defendant were summoned to appear befo re the court to defend the suit filed against them. in pursuance of the summons issued by the court, the petitioner defendant no. entered appearance on .. whereas, the petitioner defendant no. remained absent and did not appear on any date of earing despite the proper service of summons. during the course of proceedings of the suit, petitioner defendant absent and their absence culminated in to ex -parte judgment and decree dated ... it is pertinent to note that petitioner defendant no. appeared to defend the suit. he was accordingly asked to file the written statement. on .. neither petitioner defendant no. appeared nor his council, he too was proceeded ex -parte on the same day. consequently, the respondent plaintiff were asked to produce evidence on proof of their claim. the respondent plaintiffs, in pursuance of the order of the court, produced two witnesses in support of their claim and documentary evidence was also brought on the record in terms of exp to exp and the learned trail court vide page .. passed the ex -parte decree as prayed for. on .. petitoners defendant filed an application under order ix rule cpc for setting aside ex -parte judgment and decree. the learned trail cou rt after hearing the parties dismissed the application vide ... the petitioner defendant feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, filed and appeal in the court of learned district .. which ca me up for hearing in the court of learned additional district however, the same was also dismissed vide .., whereafter, petitioner defendant called in question the .. through a civil revision pe tition in the gilgit -baltistan which came up for hearing before the learned single gilgit baltistan and the same was also declined vide ... hence, this civil leave to appeal has been filed. the learned counsel for the petitioner defendant pleaded that the trial court never followed the procedure for issuance of process in its true spirit as envisaged page under order rule to cpc as such the ex -parte decree was never ustainable in law. he added further that all the three court below did not appreciate the law on the point in issue in the true prospective and passed non speaking judgment, which would be nullity in the eyes of law. the learned counsel for the petitioner defendant strenuously argued that the learned court below did not apply judicious mind while deciding the issue. he added that the date on which ex -parte decree was passed was not the date of hearing of the suit and in this view of the matter no proceedi ng could be undertaken on the date which makes the whole exercise futile and with no legal consequence. we have given the patient hearing to the learned counsel for the petitioner and have gone through the entire record of the civil revision petition no. civil misc. no. filed under order ix rule cpc and civil suit no. the perusal of record is indicates of the facts that the ex -parte decree was passed on .. and the application for restoration of suit under order ix rule cpc was filed in .. after the laps of a page period if about years, months and days. it is admitted facts that limitation for filing of appeal and application under order ix rule cpc has been provided in article of the limitatio act, makes it quite clear that limitation of days stands from the date if decree where the due service has been made. in the cases where the service is not proved to have been made on the petitioner defendant judgment debtor, the limitation sta rts from the date of knowledge of the judgment debtor. survey of the record with the able assistance of the learned counsel fir the petitioner reveals that in the case in hand summons were duly served upon the petitioner defendant no. as he, after servi ce if summons, had engaged advocate as his counsel, which is evident from the wakalatnama of above named advocate filed in behalf of the petitioner defendant no. on .. in the trial court and therefore, he represented th petitioner defendant no. in the trial court on number of dates of hearing. moreover, the summons for the service of petitioner defendant no. were issued under order rule cpc with an order to page paste the same on the main door of the resident house of the petitioner defendant no. the order of the learned trail court were fully complied with and the report if the process server namely shabeer khan is available on the summons notices no. dated .. and thereafter the summons notice under order rule cpc was also published in the daily nawa -e-waqt islamabad dated .. which has also been made part of the record. the foregoing narration makes it abundantly clear that the stand of petitioner defendant is falsified that the publi cation was made in the local newspaper with very limited circulation. hence, it is quite clear that summons were duly served upon the petitioner defendant no. through order rule cpc and consequent whereupon, through order rule cpc. the poin which has been argued by the learned counsel of the petitioner defenders is that substitute service was effected by publication or summons notices in local news paper with a very little circulation. but examination of the record of suit no. show that the substitute service was effected by publication of notices through the national page newspaper i.e. daily nawa -waqat dated --. it was never got published in any of the local newspaper. hence, in the circumstances of the case we feel inclined to hold that application of the petitioner defendant filed under order ix rule cpc was hopelessly time barred. therefore, all the three courts below have correctly dismissed the aforereferred application. admittedly, the petitioner defendant a nd the respondent plaintiff are real brothers and sisters inter se, therefore, they being legal heirs of late mir alam are within their legal right to get their shari share from the estate legacy of their father. even otherwise, the learned trail court as passed the ex parte decree after recording the ex -parte evidence of respondent plaintiff and the pws produced by the plaintiff of the suit have also confirms that the respondent herein are daughters of late mir alam and they could not get their shar i share from the legacy of their father. such like application will have no bearing at all except to prolong the litigation and agony of the other party. the civil suit no. was instituted in the court of plenary jurisdiction on .. and the page same i pending till date at very initial stage. the parties are not required under the law to play hide and seek game. there should have been genuine reasons for the absence of the petitioner herein before the trial court which are missing and the law would no help the idolents. it was the foremost duty of the petitioner defendant to keep themselves vigilant for their right and no frivolous litigation can be allowed to continue for an indefinite period on the basis of mere technicalities. for what has een discussed, we have reached to inescapable conclusion that the impugned judgment order is not suffering from any illegality, the judgment under challenge is in accordance with law and no exception can be taken by this court. the petition is meritle ss and the same is dismissed accordingly. leave refused. chief