page stereo. hc jd a judgment sheet in the lahore high court, multan bench, multan. judicial department criminal appeal no. of (aman ullah the state and another) ... appellant by: advocate. state by: -e-aziz, special prosecutor for a.n.f. sadiq mahmud khurram, j: aman ullah son of jangihaan (convict), was tried by the learned additional sessions judge, multan in case f.i.r. no. of dated .. registered at police station a.n.f, multan, in respect of an offence under section (c) of the control of narcotic substances act, the learned trial court vide .., onvicted aman ullah son of jangihaan (convict) and sentenced him as infra: aman ullah son of jangihaan: imprisonment for life under section (c) of control of narcotic substances act, and directed to pay fine of rs., and in default of payment thereof to further undergo simple imprisonment for six months. the convict was however, extended the benefit available unde section -b of code of criminal procedure, by the learned trial court. feeling aggrieved, aman ullah son of jangihaan (convict) lodged the instant criminal appeal no. of assailing the .., the learned additional sessions judge, multan page criminal appeal no. of whereby the appellant was convicted and sentenced for an offence punishable under section (c) of the control of narcotic substances act, as mentioned above. precisely, the necessary facts of the case, as divul ged through the statement of arslan arif, si (pw -), the complainant of the case, are as under: stated that on .. i was posted as si at p.s anf multan. on the same day, the high -ups received the spy information that the one amanullah derabughti who is involved in narcotics business and at about pm would come to supply from rajanpur and will exist through shahruk -ne-alam makhdoom rasheed tolpazla by using motorway on double cabin dala registration no. es sindh with concealmen of norcotis. upon this information the raiding team constituted, comprising me, subedar riaz ahmad, muhammad jamshed riaz asi, muhammad zubair, ali hamza constable, muhammad shehzad sepoy, muhammad ramzan sepoy, iqbal saleem hc driver, muhammad shakeel driver, alongwith informer reached at about pm in area of shah rukan -alam makhdoom rasheed motor way tool plaza district multan on official vehicles. as the raiding party reached there we placed a naka and started the surveillance of the vehicles co ming from the motor way side. at about pm a dala double cabin hilux motor bearing registration no.cs sindh was coming seen from the side of motor way. the informer told that the said vehicle was the double cabin dala which was stopped on the poi nting of the informer and with the assistance of the members of the raiding party, by me. a person who was boarding on the said vehicle was apprehended who disclosed his name as amanullah accused present in the court on the asking by me. on the asking me he accused admitted presence of narcotics in his possession in the presence of witnesses concealed under the driver seat. the accused himself took out ten packets of charas wrapped with yellow plastic tape page criminal appeal no. of beneath from the driver seat and hand and handed ver me by himself. further on my asking about the narcotics, the accused admitted the presence of charas in a secret cavity made under the floor of the rear part of the double cabin dala, in his possession. the accused himself removed the black colour plas tic sheet of the floor of the rear part of the above said dala and opened the secret cavity made in the floor with the help of a tool and took out packets of charas wrapped with yellow tape from there and handed over to me by himself. myself put the se rial no. to to the recovered packets of charas from the possession of accused underneath the driver seat and weighed them separately at the spot which were containing grams each which became kilograms charas in total. myself separated grams of charas from each recovered packet of charas for their chemical analysis and prepared sealed sample parcels of charas in white colour cloth and one parcel of remaining bulk of charas in a white colour plastic tora by putting the sr. no. in this wa y, i prepared total parcels and sealed them all with the stamp of aa at the spot. i secured the remaining bulk of charas p. through a separate recovery memo ex.p.b which was attested by muhammad zubair and ali hamza constable at the spot. thereafter i put the serial no. to to the recovered packets of charas from the possession of accused which were recovered from the secret cavity made in the floor of above said dala and weighed them separately which were also containing grams charas each whi ch became k.g charas in total. myself separated grams of charas from each recovered packet for their chemical analysis and made sealed sample parcels of charas in white colour cloth by putting the serial no. to myself prepared parcel remaining bulk of charas in white colour plastic toras by putting the packets in each tora and marked them with serial no. to sealed all the parcels with the stamp of aa. i secured the remaining bulk of charas p. to p. alongwith black colour double cabin hilux dala bearing registration no. cs sindh with its key p. through a separate recovery memo ex.p.c page criminal appeal no. of which was attested by muhammad zubair and ali hamza constable. from the personal search of accused currency pk rs. p., a cell phone vgo tell alongwith p., cnic of the accused p. and service card of the accused p. were recovered and secured by me through a separate recovery memo ex.p.d which was also attested by muhammad zubair and ali hamza constables at the spot. i re corded statement of witnesses u cr.p.c in this regard at the spot. the accused committed offence u -c cnsa by keeping kg charas in his possession and tried to transport and smuggle. i drafted exh.pa and sent through iqbal saleem hc driver to anf multan. a wireless call received by hc driver iqbal saleem about the registration of fir dated .. u -c cnsa against accused amanullah, the caption and other proceedings completed on the spot) we came back to ps from the place of occurrence alongwith recovery and other articles mentioned above and the same recovery and other articles handed over to muharrar on the same day. i recorded the statement of muhorar muhammad ameen asi u cr.p.c on ... the accused sent to jud icial lockup after investigation, during the investigation the accused disclosed about his companion namely jalal u din jamal -ud-din qilla abdullah. on this information the arrest warrants obtained form he concerned court and sent through rd anf la hore to rd anf balochistan for the compliance, further the section cnsa added in fir to obtain the call data record a letter sent to concern authority and reply is till awaited to obtained the details of frc of cnic jalal -ud-din a letter sent to co ncern authority and received the reply. to obtain the details of service card a letter sent to concern authority and received reply, further on verification of said service card found bogus which is also attached. letter to send to concern police station find previous record but reply still awaited. the obtained parcels of charas, sealed with the stamp of aa sent through constable muhammad asif ps anf multan for chemical analysis in pfsa collection center multan on .. and in this regard the tatement of page criminal appeal no. of muhammad asif and muhammad amin asi moharar recorded u cr.p.c on the same day. the report of chemical examiner spot found positive and submitted the same in hon'ble court through supplementary challan. a letter sent to mra for tracing the original owner of double cabin dala cs sindh and reply received from the concern authority. the said double cabin dala found on the name of ghulam mustafa and he called for investigation after sending notice u cnsa norcotis. during the cour se of investigation he told that he has sold this vehicle to attaullah zoab baluchistan and handed over to me concern documents as well as which are also attached with case file. the atta ullah was summoned by sending notice u cnsa but he did not join the investigation till date. hence, the vehicle has been using in the transportation of the narcotics and disparately secret cavity made for the narcotics concealment, therefore, it is request to confiscated the said vehicle in the favour of stat u cnsa under these circumstances, the incomplete challan prepared u cr.p.c and same sent to concerned court for trial. on the above stated facts, fir no. of (exh.pa dated .. was registered at police station a.n.f, multan in respect of an offence under section (c) of the control of narcotic substances act, after the formal investigation of the case, report under section of the code of criminal procedure, was submitted before the learned trial court wherein the appellant namely aman ullah son of jangihaan was sent to face trial. the learned trial court framed the charge against the accused on .. under section (c) of the control of narcotic substances act, the accused pleaded not guilt and claimed trial and the learned trial court proceeded to examine the prosecution witnesses. in order to prove the facts, the prosecution got examined as many as five witnesses. the prosecution got arslan arif, si (pw -) and muhammad page criminal appeal no. of zubair (pw -) examined as witnesses of the recovery of the narcotic substance. muhammad amin, asi (pw -) stated that on .. he got recorded the formal f.i.r. (exh.pa and on the same day, arslan arif, si (pw-),the complainant of the case and the investigatin officer of the case, handed over to him sealed parcels said to contain samples drawn and separated from the recovered charas and another sealed parcels said to contain the remaining charas and on .. he handed over the sealed parc els said to contain samples drawn and separated from the recovered charas to muhammad asif constable (pw -) for their onward transmission to the office of the collection centre, punjab forensic science agency, multan. arslan arif, si (pw -) also inve stigated the case from .. till the preparation of the report under section of the code of criminal procedure, and detailed the facts of his investigation in his statement before the learned trial court. on .., the learned speci al prosecutor for a.n.f gave up the prosecution witness namely ali hamza as being unnecessary and closed the prosecution evidence. after closing of prosecution evidence, the statement of the appellant was recorded under section of code of criminal procedure, and the appellant pleaded his innocence and in reply to as to why the pws had deposed against him, he stated that the witnesses were police officials who deposed falsely against him just to strengthen the prosecution being subordinate of the complainant of the case. the appellant opted not to appear in terms of section () of the code of criminal procedure, and did not adduce any evidence in his defence. page criminal appeal no. of after completion of evidence and hearing both the parties the learned trial court held the appellant guilty of offence and sentenced the appellant as referred to above. the learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the prosecution had failed miserably to prove the case against the appellant. the learned counsel for he appellant further argued that there were glaring contradictions in the statements of the witnesses, hitting at the very root of the prosecution's case. the learned counsel for the appellant argued that the prosecution's evidence was discrepant and incoherent and that there was at least one contradiction in the testimony of the prosecution witnesses that had spoiled it altogether and had made it untrustworthy. the learned counsel for the appellant also stated that nothing was recover ed from the appellant and pleaded for acquittal of the appellant. on the other hand, the learned special prosecutor for a.n.f. appearing on behalf of the state submitted that the prosecution had proved the charge by producing admissible and relevant vidence. he further submitted that the appellant himself got the contraband recovered. he contended that the appellant had failed to prove the motive for the false implication that he had pleaded in his defence. the learned special prosecutor for a.n.f. fu rther submitted that all the witnesses had corroborated each other. he requested that the appeal be dismissed. we have heard the learned counsel for the appellant as well as the learned special prosecutor for a.n.f. and perused the record. we have very carefully perused the statements of the witnesses produced by the prosecution. we find that there is more than one circumstance which points towards the false involvement of the appellant in page criminal appeal no. of this case. at the very outset, we have noticed that muhammad amin, asi (pw-) stated that on .., arslan arif, si (pw -),the complainant of the case and the investigating officer of the case, handed over to him sealed parcels said to contain samples drawn and separated from the recovered charas and another sealed parcels said to contain the remaining charas and on .. he handed over the sealed parcels said to contain samples drawn and separated from the recovered charas to muhammad asif constable (pw -) for their onward transmi ssion to the office of the collection centre, punjab forensic science agency, multan. in his statement recorded by the learned trial court, muhammad amin, asi (pw -) stated as under: on .., i handed over sealed sample parcels charas weighing gm each, bearing serial no. to and to all prepared in white colour cloth and sealed with the stamp of aa after taking out from the safe custody of mall khana to muhammad asif constable alongwith road certificate, docket in english, form copy of fir and the specimen of stamp for their onward transmission to the chemical examiner of pfsa multan. so long the parcel remained under my custody they were intact. the investigating officer recorded my statement u cr.p.con .. and .. respectively. (emphasis supplied) similarly,muhammad asif constable (pw -) in his statement recorded by the learned trial court, also stated as under: stated that on .., i was posted as constable at p.s anf, multan. on the same day, muhammad ameen asi moharrar handed over to me sealed sample parcels of charas bearing serial no. to and to weighing gms each sealed with the stamp of aa alongwith road certi ficate, docket in english, form copy of fir and the specimen of stamp for their onward transmission to the office of chemical examiner pfsa collection center multan page criminal appeal no. of which i deposited in the said office on the same day, intact. investigating officer reco rded my statement u cr.p.c in this regard on .. (emphasis supplied) however, according to the contents of the report of punjab forensic science agency, lahore (exh.pf), the sealed parcels said to contain samples drawn and separated fro the recovered charas were received in the punjab forensic science agency, lahore on ... the relevant portion of the report of punjab forensic science agency, lahore (exh.pf) reads as under: it is trite that man can tell a lie but documents do not. the report of punjab forensic science agency, lahore (exh.pf) is in direct contradiction to the statements of muhammad amin, asi (pw -) and muhammad asif constable (pw -),who both stated that the sealed parcels said to contain samples drawn and separated from the recovered charas were deposited in the punjab forensic science agency, lahore on ... it has not been explained that in whose custody the sealed parcels said to contain samples drawn and separated from the recovered charas remained from .. to ... it has also not been explained that which prosecution witness deposited the sealed parcels said to contain samples drawn and separated from the recovered charas in the punjab page criminal appeal no. of forensic science agency, lahore on ...this portion of the prosecution evidence proves that there are missing links in the chain relating to the taking into possession the case property from the place of occurrence and its submission to the punjab forensic science agency, collection centre multan. we have queried the learned special prosecutor for a.n.f. to clarify that what was the evidence available on the record to confirm that the sealed parcels of the samples separated and drawn of the recovered narcotic substance had indeed been transmitted and kept in safe custody at the police station and then deposited in the punjab forensic science agency, lahore but, after going through the record of this case from cover to co ver, he has remained unable to refute that there is no consistent evidence whatsoever available on the record in this respect that how the recovered narcotic substance was transmitted from the police station to the punjab forensic science agency, lahore. he learned special prosecutor for a.n.f. is unable to deny that the prosecution evidence was contradictory and mutually destructive in this regard. in such a state of contradictory evidence available on the record, safe custody of the recovered substance its sample is not discernable from the record of this case and, thus, we have found it to be extremely unsafe to uphold and maintain the appellant's conviction and sentence recorded by the learned trial court. in the absence of such evidence, the prosec ution, which must establish that the chain of custody was unbroken, unsuspicious, indubitable, safe and secure, has failed to do so. the break in the chain of custody and lapse in the control of possession of the recovered narcotic substance casts doubts the safe custody and safe transmission of the article and impairs and vitiates the conclusiveness and reliability of the report of the punjab forensic science agency, lahore, thus, rendering it incapable of sustaining conviction. to page criminal appeal no. of prove the safe custod of the recovered narcotic substance was pivotal for the prosecution, as the entire construct of the control of narcotic substances act, and the control of narcotic substances (government analysts) rules, rested on the report of the punjab foren sic science agency, lahore which in turn rested on the process of sampling and its safe and secure custody. it is impossible for us to determine safe and secure custody of the recovered narcotic substance. in the absence of this certainty, we cannot believ the case of the prosecution as it is. after perusal of the evidence on record, we find that the prosecution, in this case, has failed to establish the safe custody of the recovered narcotic substance. irreconcilable obscurities have crept into the case the prosecution which can be given the benefit of to the appellant only. reliance in this respect is placed on the case of mst. sakina ramzan state scmr wherein the august supreme court of pakistan has held as under: the chain of custody or safe custody and safe transmission of narcotic drug begins with seizure of the narcotic drug by the law enforcement officer, followed by separation of the representative samples of the seized narcotic drug, storage of the representative samples and the narcotic drug with the law enforcement agency and then dispatch of the representative samples of the narcotic drugs to the office of the chemical examiner for examination and testing. this chain of custody must be safe and secure. this is because, the report of the chemical examiner enjoys critical importance under cnsa and the chain of custody ensures that correct representative samples reach the office of the chemical examiner. any break or gap in the chain of custody i.e., in the safe custody or safe transmission of the narcotic drug or its representative samples makes the report of the chemical examiner unsafe and unreliable for justifying conviction of the accused. the prosecution, therefore, has to establish that the chain of custody has been u nbroken and is safe, secure and indisputable in order to be able to place reliance on the report of the chemical examiner. furthermore, according to the statements of the prosecution witnesses, the recovery was made from the appellant on .. however, according to the report of the punjab forensic science agency, lahore (exh.pf), the sealed parcels said to contain samples drawn and page criminal appeal no. of separated from the recovered charas were received in the punjab forensic science agency, lahore on .. i.e.after more than six months of the recovery. no explanation has been offered by the prosecution witnesses for this delay in the transmission of the sealed parcels said to contain the samples drawn and separated from the recovered charas to the office of collection centre, punjab forensic science agency, multan, from the police station. this fact also creates a doubt with regard to the safe custody of the recovered charas and opens up the possibility of manipulation of the sealed parcels aid to contain the recovered charas and the samples drawn and separated from the recovered charas reliance in this regard is placed on the case of mst. sabran bibi the state (crl. p.l.a. no. wherein the august supreme court of pakistan has held as under: we have also observed that contraband narcotics allegedly recovered from the petitioner were seized on ..; however, the samples were dispatched for chemical analysis to the pfsa on .., after a delay of days for which no explanation, much less plausible, has been furnished by the prosecution. in cases involving recovery of narcotic contraband, the chemical analysis report constitutes the cornerstone ofthe prosecutio evidence. such an inordinate delay in forwarding the seized items to pfsa inevitably casts a shadow of doubt on the integrity and authenticity ofthe samples. in such view of the matter the possibility of tampering, substitution, or contamination of the seized narcotics cannot be excluded. reliance is also placed on the case of asif ali and another the state through prosecutor general punjab wherein the august supreme court of pakistan also drew an inference against the prosec ution when the sealed parcels said to contain the recovered charas and the sample drawn and separated from the recovered page criminal appeal no. of charas ,allegedly recovered on .. were handed over to ahsan shehzad s.i. for transmission to office of the lab on .. in the that case. irreconcilable incongruities have cropped up in the prosecution case. we have also noted with concern hat according to the prosecution case, the prosecution witness namely iqbal saleem hc driver (pw -) had also witnessed the recovery from the appellant, however, when iqbal saleem hc driver (pw -) got his statement recorded before the learned trial court, he did not mention anything regarding the recovery of any narcotic substance from the appellant nor even named the appellant. iqbal saleem hc driver (pw -) made the following statement before the learned trial court: "stated that on .. was posted as driver at p.s nf multan. on the same day i alongwith arsalan arif si and other officials of anf multan alongwith informer departure from ps anf on official vehicle, and reached near makhdoom rasheed tol plaza veh ari road multan at pm, and started surveillance of vehicle. at about pm a double cabin dala black color registration no.cs sindh was seen, the informer pointed out that dala. on the pointation of informer arsalan arif si i.o with the help of other officials of anf stopped the dala and apprehended one person. arsalan arif si i.o commanded me for security duty. thereafter, at am (night) on .. arsalan arif si lo handed over me complaint for registration of fir and sent me to ps anf and directed me to stop at gate of police station. on reaching at ps anf multan i hande over the compliant to muharrar muhammad ameen for registration of fir. after registration of fir no. u -c cnsa ps anf multan, muharrar handed over me original complaint alongwith copy of fir. on returning to ps of arsalan arif si i.o alongwith other officials, i handed over original complaint and copy of fir to arsalan arif si o. page criminal appeal no. of the prosecutor concerned also did not move any application for the re examination of iqbal saleem hc driver (pw -) in this regard. in this manner, when iqbal salee hc driver (pw -) himself never stated that he had witnessed any recovery of any narcotic substance from the appellant, then we cannot presume this fact on our own. this failure of the prosecution witness namely iqbal saleem hc driver (pw -) to make any statement before the learned trial court regarding the details of the recovery of charas from the appellant is in itself sufficient to create a doubt in the whole of the prosecution case. to further put in doubt the prosecution case, the very ehicle from which the alleged recovery had been made and in which the appellant was present at the time of his arrest was not produced before the learned trial court during the trial. though it is correct that while examining the appellant under section of code of criminal procedure, the learned trial court did question the appellant with regard to the vehicle bearing registration no. cs sindh, however the said vehicle was never exhibited as an article during the course of the trial of the ase. the perusal of the recovery memo (exh.pc) reveals that only on the said recovery memo (exh.pc),the vehicle bearing registration no. cs sindh has been marked as p-, with its keys marked as p-, however neither during the statements of any of the prosecution witnesses nor during the examination of the appellant under section of code of criminal procedure, ,the vehicle bearing registration no. cs sindh was marked or exhibited as an article and only its keys (p -) were, clearly proving that the vehicle bearing registration no. cs sindh was never produced before the learned trial court. it was mandatory for the prosecution to have produced the said vehicle in order to allow the appellant to confront the prosecution page criminal appeal no. of witnesses and de fend themselves. the failure of the prosecution to produce the said vehicle before the learned trial court has resulted in causing prejudice to the appellant in his defence. the production of the vehicle from where the narcotic substance had been allegedl recovered was essential so as to determine and verify the place where the narcotic substance had been put did exist as suggested by the prosecution witnesses in the said vehicle. furthermore, the production of the vehicle was essential also to establish the fact that the vehicle was in working condition and the appellant was indeed arrested while driving the same. in the absence of the production of the vehicle, which was in the custody of the police and stationed in the police station, the above mention ed facts could not be determined and the failure of the determination of the said essential facts of the prosecution case raises doubts regarding the veracity of the same, the benefit of which can only be extended to the appellant. it has also been noted us that the investigating officer of the case, did not join the owner of the vehicle in the investigation of the case and did not conduct any investigation so as to establish the connection of the appellant with the owner of the said vehicle. in this manner, disparaging and destructive flaws have appeared in the prosecution case proving that the case against the appellant has no foundation. keeping all these possibilities in mind and raising necessary inferences from the facts available on the record we have arrived at a conclusion that a possibility cannot safely be ruled out of consideration regarding the appellant having been falsely implicated in the present criminal case and, thus, we have decided to extend the benefit of doubt to him. we have noticed that there are serious discrepancies in the evidence of material witnesses which cannot be ignored. though there is a slight difference by virtue of section of the control of narcotic substances act, page criminal appeal no. of in the manner and standard of proof in cases registered under the said act but the prosecution is always bound to discharge the initial onus of proof. this is now a settled principle of law that in every case, the burden to prove the guilt of the accused always lies on the prosecution. even the slightest doubt results in the failure of the case of the prosecution. benefit of doubt is not to be granted as a concession but as of right to the accused. the prosecution by mishandling the case has badly failed to bring on record unimpeachable and cogent evidence to prove the culpability of the appellant. in the light of the above noted infirmities, we are inclined to observe that the prosecution has miserably failed to bring home the guilt of the accused. the prosecution case suffers from inherent defects which are irreconcilable as it is. the guidance is sought from the binding decisions of the august supreme court of pakistan in cases titled ikramullah and others the state scmr ), akhtar iqbal the state scmr and muhammad hussain the state scmr ). the august supreme court of pakistan in the case of muhammad mansha the state scmr has enunciated the following principle: needless to mention that while giving the benefit of doubt to an accused it is not necessary that there should be many circumstances creating doubt. if there is a circumstance which creates reasonable doubt in a prudent mind about the guilt of the accused, then the accused would be entitled to the benefit of such doubt, not as a matter of grace and concession, but as a matter of right. it is based on the maxim, "it is better that ten guilty persons be acquitted rather than one innocent person be convicted". reliance in this behalf can be made upon the cases of tariq perv ez v. the state scmr ), ghulam qadir and others v. the state scmr ), muhammad akram v. the state scmr and muhammad zaman v. the state scmr ). for what has been discussed above, we are persuaded to hold that the conviction and sentence recorded by the learned additional sessions judge, page criminal appeal no. of multan vide .., in the circumstances, are not sustainable. we, thus while allowing the in stant criminal appeal no. of lodged by the appellant namely aman ullah son of jangihaan set -aside the .. the learned additional sessions judge, multan and acquit the appellant namely aman ullah son of jangihaan of the charge leveled against him by extending him the benefit of doubt. the appellant namely aman ullah son of jangihaan, is ordered to be acquitted. the appellant namely aman ullah son of jangihaan is in custody and is directed to be released forthwith if ot required in any other case. the case property shall be dealt with as directed by the learned trial court. the record of the learned trial court be sent down immediately. (tanveer ahmad sheikh (sadiq mahmud khurram)