page form no: hcjd order sheet in the lahore high court, bahawalpur bench, bahawalpur. judicial department crl. revision no. of taimoor malik. the state and four others. s.no. of order proceeding date of order proceeding. order with signatures of judge, and that of parties or counsel, where necessary. .. rana muhammad imtiaz noon, advocate for the petitioner. advocate for respondent no.. deputy district public prosecutor. through this petition filed under sections and a cr.p.c., the petitioner has assailed the order dated .. and dated .. the learned additional sessions judge, kehror pacca, district lodhran. brief facts of the case leading upto the filing of the instant petition are that the petitioner filed a private complaint titled taimoor malik shaukat hayat and two others in respect of offence under section and p.p.c. related to the case f.i.r. no. of registered at the police station city kehror pacca, district lodhran and after holding of the inquiry, the learned additional sessions hich was denied by the accused summoned, the learned additional sessions .., examination -in-chief of tai moor malik as pw-, muhammad sajjad as pw- and muhammad riaz as pw- were recorded. however, on the said date, cross -examination could not be conducted as learned counsel for the accused sought an adjournment in this regard, page crl. revision no. of however, subsequently, the three prosecutioin witneses namely taimoor malik (pw -), muhammad sajjad (pw -) and muhammad riaz (pw -) did not appear before the learned trial court on .. and on .., which led to the issuance of non bailable warrants of arrest of the said three witnesses by the learned trial court. however, on .., the petitioner appeared before the learned trial court in the morning but thereafter did not and neither did the other two witnesses, which then led to the passing of the impugned order da ted .., whereby the learned trial court observed that the right of the petitioner to produce the witnesses was being closed. subsequently, on .., the right of the petitioner to produce the documentary evidence was also closed by the learned additional sessions judge; hence, the instant petition. learned counsel for the petitioner contended that the .., whereby the right of the petitioner to produce his witnesses was closed and the .., whereby the right of the petitioner to produce the documentary evidence was closed, both are liable to be set -aside being against the facts and the law; that the law does not recognize any such procedure whereby the learned trial court holding the trial of the case cou ld order closure of the right of the complainant of the case to produce his witnesses, whose examination -in-chief have already been recorded as was ordered in this case; hence, both the orders dated .. and .. the learned trial co urt were untenable. learned counsel appe aring on behalf of respondent no. to has submitted that the learned additional sessions therefore, the impugned orders do not suffer from any illegality and could not be interfered with. page crl. revision no. of learned deputy district public prosecutor has submitted that as the matter relates to a private complaint, therefore, the state has no concern with the same. i have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner, learned counsel for respondent no. to learned deputy district public prosecutor and perused the record with their able assistance. perusal of the record reveals that that the petitioner filed a private complaint titled taimoor malik shaukat hayat and two others in respect of offences under sections and p.p.c. related to the case f.i.r. no. of registered at the police station city kehror pacca, district lodhran and after holding of the inquiry, the learned additional sessions which was denied by the accused summoned, the learned additional sessions .., examination -in-chief of taimoor malik as pw-, muhammad sajjad as pw- and muhammad riaz as pw- were recorded. however, on the said date, cross -examination could not be conducted as learned counsel for the accused so ught an adjournment in this regard, however, subsequently, the three prosecutioin witneses namely taimoor malik (pw -), muhammad sajjad (pw -) and muhammad riaz (pw -) did not appear before the learned trial court on .. and on .., which le to the issuance of non -bailable warrants of arrest of the said three witnesses by the learned trial court. however, on .., the petitioner appeared before the learned trial court in the morning but thereafter did not and neither did the other two witnesses, which then led to the passing of the impugned .., whereby the learned trial court observed that the right of the petitioner to produce the witnesses was being closed. subsequently, on .., the right of the petitioner produce the documentary evidence was also closed by the learned additional sessions judge. though, it is a page crl. revision no. of fact that after getting the examination -in-chief recorded on .. the witnesses namely taimoor malik (pw -), muhammad sajjad (pw -) and muha mmad riaz (pw -) did not appear before the court on .. and on .., due to which conduct, non -bailable warrants of arrest were issued with regard to the said witnesses and it is also correct that on .., only the petitioner appeared be fore the learned trial court and that too, only in the morning and di not appear in the later part of the day, which constrained the learned trial court to pass the impugned .. but the order which was the learned additional essions muhammad sajjad (pw -) and muhammad riaz (pw -) as witnesses was closed which order of the learned trial court has no foundation under the law itself. the procedure provided for holding of a trial with regard to the offence made punishable under section p.p.c. does not recognize any authority of the learned trial court to pass an order whereby the right of the complainant to produce his witnesses is clos ed, especially in the circumstances where the examination -in-chief of the said witnesses had bee recorded. the law itself provides the procedure for compelling the appearance of the witnesses before the court and procedure to be followed in case of their failure to appear. however, that procedure also does not allow the learned trial co urt to close any such right of a complainant to produce his witnesses for the purpose of cross -examination. the error with the .. the learned additional sessions is that the learned additional sessions -in-chief of the said three witnesses and subsequent to that, there was no need for passing of an order that the petitioner cannot produce his witnesses for the simple reason that already the said witnesses had been produced and their exa mination in-chief had been recorded, therefore, the only course which could have been adopted by the learned trial court was the procedure page crl. revision no. of provided under the law for compelling the presence of a witness therefore, the .. the learned additional sessions with regard to the .., whereby the right of the petitioner to produce the documentary evidence was closed, it is observed that it has been provided under section -f cr.p.c. that th court shall proceed to hear the complainant and take all such evidence as intended to be produced in support of the prosecution. the court has been given discretion to refus to summon any such witness, if it is of the opinion that such witness is being called for the purpose of vexation or delay or defeating the ends of justice. such ground are to be recorded in writing. now while passing the .., the learned trial court did not observe hat it was closing the right of the complainant to produce the documentary evidence for the reason that the purpose of producing he said documentary evidence was to cause delay or defeat the ends of therefore, the .. the learned additional sessions in view of the above discussion, this petition is allowed and the orders dated .., whereby the right of the petitioner to produce his witnesses namely taimoor malik (pw -), muhammad sajjad (pw -) and muhammad riaz (pw -) was closed, is set -aside and the learned trial court is directed to summon the said hree witnesses and record the cross -examination to be conducted upon the said three witnesses by the accused facing trial of the case and then proceed in accordance with the law. however, if the said three witness es do not appear before the court for the urpose of cross examination, the learned trial court shall adopt the procedure under the law for compelling the appearance of the said witnesses and proceed in accordance with the same. moreover, the page crl. revision no. of .. the learned additional sessions judge, whereby the right of the petitioner to produce documentary evidence was closed, is also set -aside. it is also directed that if the learned trial court feels that the purpose of producing the documentary evidence is to cause delay or defeat the ends of then it shall record the said grounds in writing and refuse to allow of production of the said documentary evidence; otherwise, it shall proceed in accordance with the law. (sadiq mahmud khurram