page stereo. -. judgment sheet in the lahore high court, lahore judicial department rfa no. of national highway authority through its chairman safdar ali others ... appellant by: s. muhammad saim chaudhry, saima safdar ch., munir ahmad malik, dewan zakir hussain and nazir ali qadri, advocate s. muhammad zain qazi, assistant attorney general and awais ahmad qazi, additional advocate general along with muhammad ali, deputy director legal), nha, lsmp. respondent by: advocate. muhammad sajid mehmood sethi, j.-this consolidated judgment shall dispose of instant appeal along with connected appeal i.e. rfa no. of as common questions of law and facts are involved in these cases. through these appeal s, appellant i.e. national highway authority nha in titled appeal and provincial government through land acquisition collector in connected appeal, have challenged the legality and validity of order and decree dated .., learned senior civil judge, gujranwala, whereby reference application under section of the land acquisition act, the act of ), filed by respondent no. was allowed in the following terms: in view of my findings on above issues, this reference u of the land acquisition act, is accepted and petitioner are held entitled to get market value as claimed by them coupled with amount of damages sustained due to acquisition proceedings, com pensation for future potential of property, additional compensation for page rfa no. of connected case reverence, injurious affection, disturbance, loss of profits, change of place of business and delay in conclusion of acquisition proceedings which is calculated as under: rs.-lac pe acre (off road) rs.-lac per acre (link road) rs.-lac per acre (severed land thus petitioner are held entitled to get enhanced compensation as above alongwith compulsory acquisition charges and compound interest from the date of possess ion till the execution of this order or payment of remaining compensation by national highway authority respondent no.. these issues are decided in favour of petitioners. .. compound interest would continue to accrue till such time that the entire com pensation is paid in its entirety. once the original amount has been deposited (in court), the matter goes out of the penal consequences of section of the land acquisition act, .. .. non mentioning of criteria to determine compensation and drag petitioner into litigation clearly depicts that respondent did not honour right of petitioner and due to their demeanor, petitioner had to bear expenses in the assertion of their rights before court and section cpc provides that costs are be awarded to reimburse successful party for expenses incurred by him. so, petitioner will be entitled to costs which will follow the event. costs of suit includes fee of advocates, court fee, process fee, postal service expenses, publication in newspap er, summoning of witnesses, summoning of record, expenses borne for securing documents from public government offices, petitioner travelling expenses, adjournments in reference etc. costs of the suit reference mentioned in decree sheet memo sheet hall be paid by collector who wrongly determined compensation whereas amount of enhanced compensation will be paid by national highway authority respondent no. acquiring agency. memo of costs be prepared accordingly. .. brief facts of the case ar that respondent no. filed a reference application challenging the award no. dated .., announced by the land acquisition collector, kamoke for acquisition of land in question, situated in mauza dholan for the purpose of construction lahore sialkot motorway project in tehsil kamoke, district page rfa no. of connected case gujranwala, whereby he respondent no. were awarded compensation of rs.,, per acre for land at link road and rs.,, per acre for off road land alongwith compulsory acq uisition charges. the appellant -nha filed written repl y. out of divergent pleadings of the parties, the referee court framed following issues: issues: whether market value of the suit property acquired land of petitioner was rs.,, per acre an the same was wrongly fixed rs. ,, per acre in the absence and without notice to the petitioner vide award dated .. by the land acquisition collector? opa whether the petitioner is entitled to receive the price of the land rs.,, per acre alongwith interest? opa whether the petitioner has not come to the court with clean hands? opr whether reference of the petitioner is barred by time and the same is liable to be dismissed? opr whether the reference of the petitioner is lia ble to be dismissed under order vii rule cpc? opr whether the petitioner has no cause of action and locus standi to file this reference? opr whether the reference of the petitioner is not proceedable in its present form due to mis -joinder and non -joinder of necessary parties and the same is liable to be dismissed? opr relief after recording evidence and hearing arguments from all sides, the referee court, vide order and decree dated .., allowed the reference application in the above manner. hence, instant appeal. learned legal advisor for appellant -nha, duly assisted by learned law officer, submits that the compensation was enhanced without determining the average market price of the land while ignoring rule ()(iii)(c) of the punjab land acquisition rules, he adds that respondent no. page rfa no. of connected case failed to prove the exact price as well as location of acquired land, thus, were not entitled to exorbitant compensation. he maintains that the market value was to be assessed on the basis of pric existing in preceding year of the date of issuance of notification under section of the land acquisition act, he adds that as the maximum compensation was awarded, therefore, respondent no. were not entitled to compound interest. he fur ther states that the documentary evidence, adduced by respondent no. was exhibited marked in the statement of learned counsel, therefore, the same has no evidentiary value in view of dictum laid down by the superior court s. lastly, he submits that since the available record, evidence and applicable law have not been properly appreciated by learned referee court, therefore, impugned decree is liable to be set aside. in support of his contentions, he has relied upon ghulam muhammad v. government of est pakistan (pld supreme court ), government of n. w.f.p. and others v. akbar shah and others scmr ), manzoor hussain (deceased) through l.rs. v. misri khan (pld supreme court ), mst. akhtar sultana v. major retd. muzaffar khan alik through his legal heirs and others (pld supreme court ), muhammad ashraf and others v. alam din and others clc ), jamshaid ali and others v. ghulam hassan clc ), syed nafs -e-nabi and others v. province of punjab through district collector, multan and others mld ), mst. fatima and others v. najeeb ullah and another clc ), lahore ring road authority and others v. mian mumtaz ahmad and others clc ), muhammad hussain and another v. province of punjab through district officer revenue, multan and others ylr ), national highway authority, islamabad through project director zafar mehmood v. muhammad afzal bhatti and page rfa no. of connected case another clc ), national highway authority through director v. ashiran bibi and others mld ), national highway authority through chairman v. mubashar hussain awan and others clc and hitkarini sabha, jabalpur v. corporation of the city of jabalpur and another a.i.r. m.p. conversely, learned counsel for respondent no. defends the impugned order and decree by contending that learned legal advisor for appellant -nha as well as learned law officer have failed to pinpoint any illegality or legal infirmity therein, thus, same is liab le to be upheld. he maintains that espondents had filed objections under section of the land acquisition act, but the lac mala fide failed to decide them; the award dated .. was passed at their back, rendering the entire process non -transp arent. he contends that a ppellant own written reply amounts to an admission of respondent claimed market rate. he adds that ven if respondent documentary evidence is ignored, appellant own witness (rw-) admitted market values of rs. per marla (link road) and rs. per marla (off road), which admission alone justifies enhancement far beyond what the referee court eventually awarded i.e. rs. ,, -, as such the learned referee court rightly applied section act ibid, conside ring future potential, location, severance, and comparative advantages of the land in line with the judgments of the in support, he has referred to fazalur rahman and others v. general manager, s.i.d.b. and another scmr ), government of west pakistan (now government of n. -w.f.p.) through collector, peshawar v. arbab haji ahmed ali jan and others (pld supreme court ), khurshid ahmad naz faridi v. bashir ahmad and others scmr ), ghulam rasool through l.rs. and others v. muhammad hussain and others (pld supreme page rfa no. of connected case court ), malik tariq mehmood and others v. province of punjab and others scmr ), federal government of pakistan through ministry of defence rawalpindi and others v. mst. zakia begum an others (pld supreme court ), national highway authority v. rai ahmad nawaz khan and others scmr ), nawabzada abdul qadir khan and others v. land acquisition collector mardan and others scmr ), province of punjab through collecto r, muzaffargarh and others v. muhammad ramzan and others mld ), fazal khaliq and another v. national highway authority and others clc ), wasab khan and another v. mst. bagh bhari and others mld ), muhammad munawar v. ab dul razaq and others clc ), qazi badr -ul-wahab and others v. land acquisition collector, provincial housing authority, peshawar and others ylr ), dr. m. salah -ud-din mengal and another v. government of balochistan through board of revenue and others clc ), mst. nelofer iqbal and others v. chief court gilgit -baltistan through registrar chief court and others ylr and mehr ashraf and another v. station house officer and others (pld lahore ). i have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record with their able assistance. record reveals that respondent reference application was decreed ex parte vide order and decree dated .., whereby compensation value was fixed rs.,, per acre alongwith interest per annum starting from acquisition of land till amount of award. however, the aforesaid decree was set aside while accepting application under section () cpc, filed on behalf of appellant -nha and respondent were directed to implead the nha as respondent to the reference application, which was later on decreed and the page rfa no. of connected case amount of compensation already awarded by learned referee court was enhanced along with award of costs of suit, as detailed in commencing paragra ph of this judgment. appellant are not satisfied with the decision of the referee court and are urging to restore the award announced by the land acquisition collector. the pivotal issues no. are inter -linked and inter connected, hence are decide jointly. the remaining issues no. to have not been pressed before this court. however, learned counsel for respondent submits that as the petitioner received the compensation without any protest, therefore, the reference was not maintainable. this co ntention is not legally tenable. although reliance has been placed on mark -c to assert that the respondent accepted the awarded compensation without protest, the appellant -nha failed to discharge the essential evidentiary burden of producing the relevant payment register or any other primary record to substantiate this assertion. no effort was made to summon the said register through a formal application either. in the absence of the primary documentary evidence, the mere reliance on a marked document, uns upported by the original record, cannot be treated as conclusive proof of unconditional receipt. moreover, during cross -examination, aw categorically stated that the respondent had received the compensation under protest. this statement remained unshake and was never rebutted by the appellant -nha through any admissible evidence. in land acquisition proceedings, where the right to seek a reference is sought to be defeated on the ground of acceptance without protest, the acquiring agency must establish this fact through clear and unimpeachable evidence. the failure of the appellant nha to do so creates a presumption in favour of the respondents, and the statutory bar under section () cannot be invoked in such uncertain circumstances. given this page rfa no. of connected case eviden tiary position, the objection raised by the appellant -nha has no factual foundation, and the reference cannot be declared incompetent on the basis of an unproven allegation of unconditional receipt. it is pertinent to note that under the settled legal principles, a claimant who files an application for reference under section of the land acquisition act, challenging the adequacy of the compensation, shall be deemed to have received the awarded amount under protest. the act does not prescribe any specific mode or form of protest; it may be made either orally at the time of receiving the compensation or impliedly by filing a reference within the prescribed period. in the present case, although respondent safdar ali and arshad ali did not expressly mention under protest on mark c, the receipt of compensation qabzul wasool dated .., the filing of their reference application on .. sufficiently demonstrates an implied protest against the award. the absence of a written mention in th qabzul wasool (mark -c) is a mere technicality and does not disentitle the respondent from claiming enhanced compensation under section of the act. therefore, the objection of the appellant side regarding acceptance of compensation without protest i without merit and is accordingly overruled. reliance is placed upon wali ahmad v. collector, land acquisition and others scmr ), zardad khan and others v. government of n.-w.f.p. and others scmr ), qazi badr -ul-wahab and others v. land acquisition collector, provincial housing authority, peshawar and others ylr ), muhammad yaqoob through legal heirs v. land acquisition collector (m-) national highway authority and others (pld lahore and federation of pakistan v. nasir munir ahmed and others clc ). page rfa no. of connected case the core controversy is whether the compensation assessed by the land acquisition collector represents fair and just compensation, or whether the valuation determined by the referee court, within the contemplation of sections and of the land acquisition act, constitutes the correct measure. admittedly, notification u of the act of for acquiring land in question situated in village dholan, tehsil kamoke, district gujranwala was issued on .. and the award (exh.a was announced on .., according to the valuation approved by the district price assessment committee, whereby compensation rs.,, per acre for link road and rs.,, per acre for off road was fixed. whereas learned referee court fixed the amount of compensation for the land in question as rs.,, per acre for off road, rs.,, per acre for link road and rs.,, per acre for severed land. along with a dditional monetary benefits i.e. compulsory acquisition charges, compound interest from date of possession until full payment, continuation of i nterest until entire compensation is paid, damages ancillary compensation and osts of litigation particularly advocate fee. the learned referee court enhanced the compensation on the basis of respondent documentary evidence as exh.a to exh.a -, and mark -a to mark -d. these documents were tendered in the statement of learned counsel, which was not permissible under th well -established principle enunciated by the superior court including cases reported as manzoor hussain (deceased) through l.rs. v. misri khan (pld supreme court ), mst. akhtar sultana v. major retd. muzaffar khan malik through his legal heirs a nd others (pld supreme court ), mst. rasoolan bibi v. province of page rfa no. of connected case punjab and others clc and national highway authority, islamabad through project director zafar mehmood v. muhammad afzal bhatti and another clc ). however, it is a matte of record that both the parties have relied upon and tendered the minutes of the meeting of the district price assessment committee in their respective evidence. as he respondent having produced the same document as exh.a -, and the appel lants as mark rw -a, the authenticity thereof cannot now be disputed, and the court is justified in taking it into consideration in the interest of fairness and due process. the respondent are satisfied by the valuation made by the assistant collector, kam oke, who determined it rs., per acre for link road and rs.,, per acre for off road. furthermore, the respondent themselves admitted in para of their reference the market rate of rs.,, per acre and did not claim rs.,, per acre for any classification of land. the learned referee court though referred to aforesaid valuation of the assistant commissioner, kamoke, but award ed rs.,, per acre, which is not only excessive but also wholly beyond the respondent own pleaded stance. thus, the impugned compensation award ed by learned referee court appears to be unsupported by the pleadings, contrary to the respondent admissions, and lacking any credible market evidence. even otherwise, one of the members of the committee was produced in evidence to explain the criteria adopted by it while fixing the price. earlier, in similar circumstances, this court in the case of mubashar hussain awan, supra, while relying upon the report of the field staff, duly mentioned in the award (exh.a2), decreased the amount of compensation. the aforesaid judgment has been upheld by the page rfa no. of connected case in view of the above, instant appeal and connected appeal are partly allowed in the manner that impugned order and decree ated .. is modified to the extent that respondent no. are held entitled to get the following amount of compensation: rs. ,, per acre (off-road) rs. ,, per acre (link road) rs. ,, per acre (severed land) respond ents no. are also held entitled to recover compulsory acquisition charges and compound interest from the date of possession until payment of the adjusted compensation. all other claims for damages, injurious affection, loss of profits, change of business location, and ancillary expenses including litigation costs, are rejected. (muhammad sajid mehmood sethi) .h.s.