page form no: hcjd order sheet in the lahore high court, multan bench, multan judicial department w.p. no. muhammad tahir bashir province of punjab, etc. s.no. of order proceeding date of order proceeding order with signature of judge, and that of parties of counsel, where necessary .. advocate for the petitioner in this petition and in other connected petitions. muhammad ali siddiqui, syed muhammad kaml haider naqvi, fatima safeer and nouman aftab, advocates in connected w.p. no. muhammad ashraf sag o, advocate for petitioner in connected w.p. no. ch. muhammad saeed and farzan hashmat ch., advocate for petitioner in connected w.p. no. advocate for petitioner in connected w.p. no. raja naveed azam, advocate for petitioner in connected w.p. no. rai rafaqat hussain bhatti, babar ahsan bhatti and abdul samad ali, advocates for petition in connected w.p. no. malik masroor haider usman, additional advocate general along with junaid neem, aeo, jawad akbar, district accounts officer, riaz ahmad, senior law officer lg cd department south punjab, abdul razzaq khan, senior auditor, district accounts office, multan, talha sajid, aeo rajanpur, inspector muhammad atif, khanewal and amir sohail, municipal officer (finance) municipal committee, kallar kot. debates and controversies after the omission of rule -a of the punjab civil servants (appointment conditions of service) rules, page w.p. no. (rule -a) reach this court in one manifestation or the other. primary reason for avalanche of constitutional petitions, instituted in routine, touching issue of enforceability of rule -a vis -à-vis past and closed appointments and matters, where question of determination of final and decisive step requires clear and conclusive decisions, is gross confusion prevalent amongst the ranks of the executive administrative branch of the government, which, despite passing of judgments variously, still manifest disagreements and hand down inconsistent orders. this had compounded the confusion. two categories of constitutional petitions are pending and are decided through this single decision which categories are identified as category -a and category -b details of petitions in category -a are provided in annex -a of the schedule and category -b are listed in annex -b of the schedule, which schedule is part of this judgment. category -a are cases where appointments under rule -a were made before ... and category -b relates to cases where appointments letters were not issued, till .., but petitioner claimed that final and decisive steps were taken before .. and appointment letters were not issued in wake of confusion qua actual terminal date with respect to the applicability of order of omission of rule -a. it is believed that determination of terminal date when omission of rule -a would be page w.p. no. effective for all intent and purposes would alleviate and address prevalent confusion. this determination was already carried out in terms of the decision dated .., in case of province of punjab, etc. v. syed muhammad ali raza shah passed while deciding ica no. and connected matters. relevant findings at paragraph are reproduced hereunder: the persons who have taken benefit of rule -a of the rules till its omission dated .., that process would deem to be a part and closed chapter. to further classify and clarify the situation, the persons who could not get the benefit of rule -a of the rules (omitted on ..) and were in process and no final and decisive step could had been taken effect till the pronouncement of venerated judgment passed in the case of general pos office, islamabad and others (supra) i.e. .., the judgment ibid would be applicable with retrospective effect it is evident that learned division bench, while deciding the case(s) of those persons, who had not benefited from rule -a, till its omission on .., which date was extended till .. by virtue of giving effect to the judgment in the case of general post office, islamabad and others v. muhammad jalal civil petition no. ), clearly observed that such persons, whose cases were in process and no final and decisive step had been taken till the pronouncement of venerated judgment passed in the case of general pos office, islamabad and others (supra) i.e. .., would not claim benefit from rule -a, since in their case judgment in the case of general pos office, islamabad and others would page w.p. no. apply retrospectively. learned division bench objectively had not drawn a clear divide between persons in whose favour appointment letters were issued before the terminal date and those who did not possess appointment letters and benchmark settled was that no final and decisive step had been taken effect till ... i reject the interpretation proposed by learned law officer that only those persons were protected whose appointment letters were issued before ... in fact and law, and by virtue of decision of .., terminal date was declared as ... question that whether any final and decisive step had been taken is a fact-question, determination whereof differs in each case. in view of the above, persons appointed before .., in whose favour appointment letters were issued category -a their appointments were declared lawful and authorities concerned are directed to ensure payment of their salaries accordingly some petitioner raised grievance regarding non payment of salaries despite performing of duties pursuant to appointment orders issued before the terminal date .. all petitions listed in annexure -a are allowed in terms of findings declarations in this paragraph and any adverse order passed contrary to this declaration is set -aside. now i take -up cases of category -b listed at annexure -b in certain petitions orders page w.p. no. variously authorities were also assailed on the ground that despite taking of final and decisive steps, before .., appointments were declined by wrongfully applying terminal date as ... without discussing individual facts cases of each petitioner(s), it is appropriate to remand category -b matters to the respective authorities, which had passed orders respectively and hereby impugned, upon setting aside said orders. authorities concerned would determine that whether any final and decisive step had been taken till .. with respect to the claims of petitioner of annex -b. in view of aforesaid, petitions relating to category -b cases annex -b are allowed in terms of findings declarations in this paragraph. hence, petitions are decided accordingly, terms of findings declarations recorded at paragraphs and (supra) respectively. office is directed to send copy of this order to chief secretary, government of punjab for compliance accordingly. (asim hafeez) .p. no. annexure -a. sr. no. case number. title of case. w.p. no. muhammad tahir bashir province of punjab, etc. w.p. no. ali farooq district accounts officer, multan, etc. w.p. no. mst. sadia rafique, etc. bahaudin zakariya university, etc. (asim hafeez .p. no. annexure -b. sr. no. case number. title of case. w.p. no. muhammad saeed superintendent government livestock farm w.p. no. muhammad umar mustafa government of punjab, etc. w.p. no. ahmad awais deputy commissioner bhakkar, etc. w.p. no. muhammad waqas latif government of punjab, etc. w.p. no. shahzaib ali special secretary home department, etc. w.p. no. muhammad fayyaz government of punjab, etc. (asim hafeez