page form no. hcjd order sheet in the lahore high court lahore judicial department f.a.o. no. of nasir ishaq malik ch. hasan nawaz sr. no. of order proceeding date of order proceeding order with signature of judge, and that of parties of counsel, where necessary .. advocate for the appellant. advocate for respondent. this appeal under section of cantonment rent restriction act is directed against .. of learned addl. rent controller, lahore cantt. whereby the appellant eviction was directed on account of non -compliance of order or deposit of rent under subsection () of section of cantonment rent restriction act, (the act ). for eviction of appellant on the grounds of default in payment of rent and expiry of lease a petition under section the act was moved by the espondent claiming that appellant was a tenant in the rented premises who had committed default in payment of rent. after filing of reply to the application the learned addl. rent controller vide .. directed deposit of arrears of rent as well as future monthly rent pending decision of the ejectment petition. later, on .. the respondent filed an application under subsection () of section of the act asserting that the order for deposit of rent was not complied with and that in view of willful default the appellant was liable to forthwith eviction from the rented premises. despite opportunities the appellant did not file his reply which right was closed and after hearing both sides the learned addl. rent controller vide impugned .. concluded that the rent for the month of june, was deposited on .. instead page f.a.o. no. of -- of .. while the rent for the month of december, had not been deposited, accordingly, the appellant right of defence was struck of and he was directed to vacate the premises and also pay the arrears of rent at the rate of rs. per month with annual increase which order is impugned in this appeal. heard. submissions made by learned counsel have been duly considere in the light of record available with this appeal and it is observed that for the reasons hereafter the appellant was liable to eviction on account of non compliance of order of addl. rent controller under subsection () of section of the act. under ubsection () of section of the act provides that before issues are framed the rent controller shall direct the tenant to deposit in his office before specified date of the rent due from him and also to deposit regularly till the final decision of the ase before 5th of each calendar month the monthly rent which subsequently become due and if there be any dispute as to the amount of rent, the controller shall determine such amount approximately. sub -section () of section of the act mandates that if he tenant fails to deposit the amount of rent before specified date or as the case may be, before 5th day of the month, his application, if he is a petitioner shall be dismissed or his defence if he is respondent shall be struck off and the landlord shall be put in possession of the building without any further proceedings. from the available documents, it is discernible that the rent controller on .. passed the order for deposit of arrears of rent and future monthly rent under subsection () of section of the act directing the appellant to deposit the rent from may to september page f.a.o. no. of -- at the rate of rs. and with annual enhancement with effect from october, to november, before .. and to deposit the future month ly rent with annual increase before 5th of each calendar month. on .. respondent filed an application under subsection () of section of the act claiming that the appellant had not complied with the order the addl. rent controller regarding the deposit of rent as directed on .. and that he had committed default in payment of arrears of rent within the stipulated period. the allegation was that the rent for the month of june was deposited on .. instead of .. and that rent for the month of december, was not deposited and that the arrears of rent was not deposited in accordance with tentative determination of rs. ,, on or before ... it was also observed by the addl. rent controller that the rent for the month of june, was towards the arrears of rent which was to be deposited on or before .. instead it was deposited on .. which was default on the part of appellant. similarly, no receipt for deposit of rent for the mont of december was filed in the court. on being confronted with the findings of addl. rent controller, regarding default in the payment of arrears of rent i.e. for the month of june, and non-deposit of rent for december the appellant couns el could not deny the facts noted supra, nor was there any explanation for non- deposit of rent within time specified in the order. even on careful perusal of record of appeal as available clearly prove that there was no compliance of .. in respect of month of june, and non- deposit of rent for december therefore, the addl. rent controller had no other option except to direct page f.a.o. no. of -- straightaway ejectment of the appellant in terms of section () of the act. reference can be made to he case of m. h. mussadaq v. muhammad zafar iqbal and another scmr ). on this aspect of the matter, the legal position is very clear. according to sub -section () of of the act, if the tenant fails to deposit the amount of rent before specified date or as the case may be before 5th of the month, his defence shall be stuck off. on its bare perusal, it is manifest that the above provisions are mandatory in nature and even one day delay in making the deposit would be default withi its meaning and rent controller has no power to extend time and condon the same. to further fortify, reference can be made to the case of misbahullah khan v. mst. memoona taskinuddin scmr in which while interpreting scope of section of the act it was ruled to the effect that tentative rent order can be the rent controller even if ground of default is not alleged for seeking eviction. it was also observed that punitive response shall directly visit upon non-compliance with the tentative rent order and in consequence the defence of tenant may be stuck off and even eviction can be granted. in province of punjab and others v. muhammad jalil ur rehman scmr it was observe to the effect that the rent controller had no power to ignore the delay in making deposit of rent under subsection () of section of the west pakistan urban rent restriction ordinance (vi of which is a comparable provision. similarly muhammad yo usaf v. muhammad bashir and others scmr leave to appeal was declined and petition was dismissed and it was maintained that the rent controller had no jurisdiction to page f.a.o. no. of -- condone even default of a day in making deposit of the rent on due date. in the instant case also there was no explanation for late deposit of rent for the month of june, or non- deposit of rent for the month of december, so much so no reply to the application for striking off defence was filed by the appellant to explain the late deposit of rent and the default committed by him by not depositing the rent for the month of december in this view of the matter the order of addl. rent controller is fair, just and in accordanc with the jurisprudence enunciated by the superior courts. no ground whatsoever has been made out for interference. resultantly, this appeal being devoid of any merit is dismissed. (rasaal hasan syed)