page stereo.hcjda judgment sheet in the lahore high court lahore judicial department c.r. no. of muhammad arshad mehmood etc. muhammad bashir (deceased) through l.rs. etc. .. the petitioner by ch. riaz hussain, advocate respondent no. to by ch. manzoor ahmad shakir, advocate respondent no. to by asst. advocate general respondent no.( to ), to proceeded against ex parte vide .. malik waqar haider awan, the petitioner have challenged the validity of the judgment and decree dated .. passe by the learned civil sialkot and the judgment and decree dated .. the learned addl. district judge, sialkot. through the former, the suit filed by anayat ullah, predecessor of the petitioner was dismissed and through the latter, the appeal filed against that judgment was also dismissed. the brief facts of the case are that the late father of the petitioners, anayat ullah, purchased agricultural land measuring kanals -marlas from respondent no. muhammad bashir (predecessor of respondent no.( to and mst. sughran bibi (predecessor of respondent no. to hrough registered sale deed no. dated ... the sale was implemented through mutation no. dated .. (exh. -). the name of late anayat ullah was entered in the record -of-rights for the year (exh. -) as owner to the extent of -kanals -marlas, whereas according to the petitioners, the remaining land measuring -kanals -marlas, though sold, was not incorporated in the reven ue record due to fraud committed by respondent no. in connivance with the revenue staff to deprive the petitioner s. it is further asserted that their predecessor remained unaware page c.r. no. of -- of this alleged fraud for a long time and that he remained in possession of the land purchased by him. upon discovery of the alleged manipulation in the revenue record, the predecessor of the petitioner filed a suit for declaration, possession and permanent injunction. respondent no. to to filed a written statemen t. they admitted execution of the registered sale deed but pleaded that after the consolidation proceed ings of -, respondent no. continued to be the recorded owner. they further stated that the application filed by the predecessor of the petitioner for correction of the revenue record was dismissed by the district officer revenue, sialkot on .. and that the revision before the edor also failed on ... they objected that the suit was not maintainable. divergent pleadings of the pa rties were summed up through issues and the learned trial court after reco rding of evidence of both the parties dismissed the suit, mainly on the ground that the civil court had no jurisdiction in view of section of the punjab consolidation of holdings ordinance, (west pakistan ordinance vi of (hereinafter shall be referred to as the ordinance, ). the learned appellate court affirmed this finding and dismissed the appeal. learned counsel for the petitioner contends that the sale of the disputed land has never been denied by respondent no. to ), as the land was validly sold through a registered sale deed executed by respondent no. and the predecessor of respondent no. to namely mst. sughran bibi. he refers to the registe red sale deed (exh.p -), pursuant to which the name of the predecessor of the petitioner was incorporated and duly reflected in the register haq -daran -e-zamee for the year (exh.p -) pertaining to mauza loharke, tehsil pasrur, wherein the fact of the sale was recorded. he further points out that mutation no. was also sanctioned on the basis of the said transaction. he further pleads that despite these admitted facts, the name of deceased anayat ullah was subsequently omitted from the later regis ters haq daran -e-zameen for the years and (exh.p and exh.p -), wherein instead the name of late muhammad bashir (respondent no.) came to be reflected. he argues that the subsequent jamabandies do not record the name of deceased anayat ul lah and that this deletion was procured through fraud and manipulation by page c.r. no. of -- respondent no., late muhammad bashir, who re -entered the record as owner without any lawful instrument of title. further maintains that the burden lies squarely upon respondent no., as the alleged beneficiary of such alteration in the record, to establish a valid basis for his ownership, which he has completely failed to do. he places reliance on judgments reported as misri through legal heirs and others muhammad sharif and oth ers scmr ), muhammad yousaf and others khan bahadur through legal heirs scmr ), muhammad nawaz malik ghulam sarwar and others mld ), ellahi bakhsh and others ahmad bakhsh and others mld ), muhammad hayat and others abdul rahim and others mld and himat alias allah deya rehmat ylr ). conversely, learned counsel representing the private respondent no. to argues that the jurisdiction of the civil court is expressly barred under section of the ordinance, he submits that if the petitioner or their predecessor were aggrieved by any step taken by the consolidation authorities, they were required to avail the remedy of appeal provided under he ordinance, itself. he further pleads that any deprivation alleged by the petitioner took place, if at all, durin the consolidation proceedings and therefore the civil court could not assume jurisdiction over such matters in view of the statutory bar. arguments heard. record perused. the main reason for dismissal of the suit and appeal was the finding that the jurisdiction of the civil court is barred under section of the ordinance, the said provision reads as follows: jurisdiction of civil courts barred as regards matter arising under this ordinance. no civil court shall entertain any suit or application to obtain a decision or order in respect of any matter which government or the board of revenue or any officer is by this ordinance, empowered to determine, decide or dispose of. from a bare perusal of the above -referred section, it is clear that the jurisdiction of the civil court is barred only with respect to matters arising under the consolidation ordinance. it is evident from the plaint and the evidence on record that the consolidation proceedings per se were never challenged by the petitioners. rather, the grievance of the petitioner is that despite an admitted registered sale deed and page c.r. no. of -- sanctioned mutation, the entitlement of their predecessor was subsequently diminished in the revenue record without any lawful basis. prayer of the petitioner in their suit is reproduced as under: احبالت ابال ادتساع ےہ ہک ڈرگی ارقتسارقح قحب دمیع رب الخػ دماع مہیلع دبنی ومضمؿ اصردر مرئا ئا ارر ارار رد ئا ہک ارایض دتموع ہی انکؽ ھچ انکؽ وسہل رمےل دنمرہج نمض ربمن6 ردوعی وج ربر ررٹسجی ہعیب انہم ربمن دصمہق ومرہخ66-- ربر ااقتنؽ ربمن726 دصمہق ومرہخ6969-- اک اکلم ئاکل اقضب ےہ ہلمج ادنرائات وطبر ئاکل انبؾ دماع مہیلع ربمن ات67 رسارس طلغ الخػ اقونؿ الخػ رااعقت ینبم رب ردہکہک ردو زب ابب ہارا دماع مہیلع ات22 ںیہ وج یعطق وطر رپ ان اقلب لمع ارر اقلب وسنمیخ ںیہ العر ابںی ہلمج یلقتنم اہ وج اجنمبن رغصاں یب یب قحب رمشی یب یب برہج اتج ردنی یھب الخػ اقونؿ ارر الخػ رااعقت ینبم رب ردہکہک رمراڈ ارر قوؼ دمیع رپ اع وما ارر اک مدؾ ںیہ ویکہکن رغصاں یب یب اب اں لبق اانپ یتیکلم ہلمج ااقحتسؼ قحب دمیع ربر ررٹسجی عن ہم ذتمک ابال لقتنم یکچ وہ یھت وجاب اں دعب سک مسق یک وک یلقتنم یسک انؾ ےن یک اقون ان اجمب ہن یھت ارر ردرراؿ الیپ مکح اانتمیع اعریض ات ہلصیف الیپ ردرراؿ ردوعی دعایتل مکح یک الخػ رربی ںیم ہضبق دش ارایض اک اب اضہطب ردلخ ہضبق وحاہل دمیع ردںی زین ڈرگی مکح اانتمیع ردرایم قحب دمیع رب الخػ دماع مہیلع دبںی ارم اصردر مرئا ئا دماع مہیلع ابو زب ابب ےس دمیع ردلخ ہضبق رتیکلم ںیم برب ردیتس ہنیس برری ارر الخػ اقونؿ رطہقی ےس دماتلخ ےب ئا ےت وہ دمیع یک اکہتش لصف ومیجن وک ررک اضعئ ےن ےس ہشیمہ ہشیمہ ےئلیک اببر ونممع رںیہ زین وطبر رداردریس زلتسمہم ردرگی وج یھب رداردریس ارنی ااصنػ دعاتل وہ یھب ہعم رخہچ اصردر مرئا ئار however, the respondent on the other hand while filing written statement have taken the adverse pleas. relevant extracts from the written tatement are hereunder:- ":ذعرات ادتبا ہی ہک دمیع وک ردوعی ذہا ردارئ ےن ےئلیک وک locus standi ارر انب ردوع احلص ہن ےہ ذہلا ردوعی دمیع ارخاج ےہ دمیع ےن ردوعی ذہا ومرہخ -- وک ردارئ ایک ارر وئمفق اایتخر ایک ہک دماع ہیلع دمحم ریشب ےن ردرراؿ امستع الیپ ردوعی ارایض دعتاردی 4k-12m رپ برب ردیتس ہضبق ایل وہا ےہ احالہکن رداتسرزیی اہشردت شیپ رد مرنیقی ارر مکح دصمر ومرہخ -- اباں دعاتل انجب دیس انرص یلع اخبری اڈیلنشی ڈرٹسٹکجج لایٹوک ےس دمیع ومفق یک یف وہی ےہ دماعہیلع دمحمریشب اکررا ااعتشؽ زؽ دعب ارایض دموعہی اک لسلسم ئاکل اقضب الب رشتک رے الچ آراہ ےہ دمیع اک ارایض دتموعہی ےس یسک مسق اک وک قلعت راہطس ہن ےہ ذہلا ردوعی دمیع maintainable ہن ےہ اخرج مرئا ئارے (ب) (ج) ہی ہک دمیع ومعض ول اہر لیصحت رسپرر ںیم ردرگی ارایض اک ئاکل ےہ وج ارایض دمیع ےن رتشمہک اھکہت دماع ہیلع دمحم ریشب ےس رخدی یک آرایض ردرراؿ اکررا اامتشؽ دحیلع وہ ردرگی اھک ہت یتیکلم ںیم مض وہ یکچ وہ ےہ اامتشؽ دعب ارایض دعتاردی ربمن رسخ ےس دمیع اک وک قلعت راہطس ہن ےہ ارگ اامتشؽ اک ررا دعب دمیع دماع ہیلع ےس page c.r. no. of -- ارایض رخدی ات وت اس اک ردوعی اتنب اھت infact دمیع ےن ذبرہعی ردوعی ذہا اکررا اامتشؽ وک جنلیچ رد ےہ وج ردوع دمیع رہ احلظ ےس barred by law ےہ in this regard, qamar abbas, circle patwari, appeared as pw who categorically failed to explain or commensurate with the changes made in the subsequent record -of-rights whereby the entitlement of the predecessor of the petitioner stood eclipsed. the pertinent portion of his evidence is reproduced hereinbelow:- ربفلح ایبؿ ایک ںیم زؽ69 اک ررٹسج دقحاراؿ بںیم ہارا ال وہں اطمقب راکیرڈ انعتی اہلل دمیع اک ادنراج اھکہت ربمن وتھکین ربمن696 اخبہن اکتش ںیم وطبر رتشمی ربمن رسخ66 رہبق دعتاردی4 انکؽ62 رمےل اک ادنراج وموجرد ےہ اباعئؿ ںیم دمحم ریشب ہصح رغصاں یب یب3 ہصح اک ادنارج ےہ اخہن اکتش اک ہی ادنراج ربر ااقتنؽ ربمن ہعیب ملقب لایو ردرج ےہ زؽ74 ںیم ربمن رسخ66 یک اجب ربمن رسخ اقمئ وہایگ راکیرڈ اطمقب بج ربمن رسخ ربمن رسخ62 ںیم دبتلی وہا وت انعتی اہلل دمیع اک ادنراج یسک اخہن ںیم ہن ےہ ریمے اپس ایسی وک زیچ ہن ےہ ہک اتب وکسں ہک ہی راکیرڈ ےسیک دبتلی وہا ریمے اپس ااقتنؽ ربمن وموجرد ہن ےہ xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx ردرتس ےہ لثم تقیقح اامتشؽ دعب دمیع اک ربمن رسخ62 زقب66 ابرے ںیم اکذغات ئاؽ عم دعب دمحم ریشب ردل رچاغ ردنی رم ںیم یسک لکش ںیم ادنراج وموجرد ہن ےہ ردرتس ےہ ہک لثم تیقح اتش دماع مہیلع اک ادنراج وطبر ئاکل اقضب ابتب ربمن رسخ بری اکر دعتاردی4 انکؽ62 رمےل لسلسم الچ آراہ ےہ from the above, after consolidation proceedings, it appears that during preparation of misl-e-haqeeqat due to malafide or otherwise name of anayat ullah predecessor of the petitioner was omitted and muhammad bashir etc. predecessor respondent shown as owner as per his previous ownership but there is no document available that how this change took place. learned counsel for respondent failed to refer any document which may justify this change but only stressed that under section of the ordinance, jurisdiction of civil court is barred. no authority is empowered with unbridled powers rather jurisdict ion is to be exercised in accordance with law. support is drawn from the judgment reported as utility stores corporation of pakistan limited punjab labour appellate tribunal and others (pld supreme court ). no iota of evidence is availab le on record to show as to how, when and under what authority such diminution of entitlement occurred. page c.r. no. of -- even the province of the punjab and the revenue hierarchy, though party to the proceedings, failed to explain the manner in which the predecessor of the petitioner was deprived of his title. without any proof showing that the change in the subsequent record -of-rights was the result of consolidation proceedings or any lawful order passed thereunder, it cannot be presumed that such change occurred due to consolidation. courts decide cases on the basis of proof and not on presumption, whereas the findings of both the learned courts below while referring section of the ordinance, are based on presumptions and conjectures, which are not tenable in the eye of law. it is settled law that a special or statutory tribunal cannot clothe itself with jurisdiction by deciding jurisdictional facts in its own favour. the august supreme court of pakistan in judgments reported as the improvement trust, rawalpin di (pld supreme court and hamid husain government of west pakistan and others scm has authoritatively held that such tribunals are not judges of the facts which form the foundation of their jurisdiction, unless the statute expressly so provides. a civil court, being a court of plenary jurisdiction, is competent to examine whether such jurisdictional facts exist. in the absence of any lawful order showing that the alleged diminution of entitle ment resulted from consolidation proceedings, the bar under section of the ordinance, cannot be presumed. blanket cover of statutory bar cannot be extended to each and every act of illegality committed by revenue or consolidation staff merely by invoking section of the ordinance, any illegality does not attain immunity from the jurisdiction of civil courts solely because it was committed during the era when consolidation proceedings were in progress, particularly when such illegality as no nexus with the consolidation process itself. the mere existence of consolidation proceedings does not oust civil court jurisdiction where he dispute relates to title. reference can be made to case reported as muhammad and others muhamma hayat and others clc ), wherein it was held that questions of ownership and lawful entitlement fall within the exclusive page c.r. no. of -- jurisdiction of the civil court, notwithstanding consolidation proceedings. it would not be out of place to mention here that section of the west pakistan land revenue act, (hereinafter shall be referred to as the act, itself provides a statutory remedy where a person is aggrieved by an entry in the record -of-right affecting his proprietary rights, enabling him to approach the civil court. the present case squarely falls within the ambit of section of the act, as the petitioner have alleged deprivation of title through fraudulent manipulation of revenue ecord. this view finds support from the judgment reported as nemat ali and another malik habib ullah and others scmr and brig. (r) masood salam through legal heirs sohail ahmad and others (pld lahore ). for convenience section of the act, is reproduced below:- suit for declaratory decree by persons aggrieved by an entry in a record. if any person considers himself aggrieved by an entry in a 'record -of-rights' or in a periodical record as to any right of whic he is in possession, he may institute a suit for a declaration of his right under chapter vi of the specific relief act, (act i of ). the above -reproduced section expressly preserves the right to challenge incorrect or fraudulent revenue ntries through a civil suit. light can be taken from judgment reported as muhammad yousaf and others khan bahadur through legal heirs scm wherein the august supreme court of pakistan has held that the jurisdiction of civil courts is not ousted in such matters and that failure to consider section constitutes a legal error. section of the act, restricts any variation in entries in a record -of-rights or in a periodical record, except entries made in the periodical record regarding undisputed acquisition of interest under section of the act, learned counsel for the respondent has taken the plea of non maintainability of the suit but has not referred to any document through which the predecessor of the petit ioners was deprived of his land nor any instrument through which deceased muhammad bashir respondent no. or mst. sughran bibi allegedly acquired title. page c.r. no. of -- the scope of section of the code of civil procedure, (cpc) is well -settled. the august supr eme court in cases referred as abdul rauf and others abdul hamid khan and others (pld supreme court and pakistan transport company ltd. walayat khan through legal heirs scnr has consistently held that civil courts are courts of general and plenary jurisdiction and are competent to try all suits of a civil nature unless their cognizance is expressly or impliedly barred by law. it has further been held that the question whether an act of an executive authority, revenue officer, or quasi -judicial tribunal is without jurisdiction or illegal is itself a matter of a civil nature and is justiciable before civil courts. for ease of reference, section is reproduced hereunder: courts to try all civil suits unless barred. the courts shall (subject to the provisions herein contained) have jurisdiction to try all suits of a civil nature excepting suits of which their cognizance is either expressly or impliedly barred. complicated questions of law and fact, particularly those involving allegations of fraud, necessarily require recording and appreciation of evidence and fall within the exclusive jurisdiction of the civil court. fraud can only be adjudicated by a competent civil court and not by revenue authorities exercising summary jurisdiction. fraud and mala fides vitiate all proceedings and cannot be protected by any statutory bar. the august supreme court of pakistan in case of nazir ahmad and others scm has successively held that the jurisdiction of civil courts can never be taken away in respect of fraudulent or mala fide acts, as such acts are void in law and require adjudication through proper recording and appreciation of evidence. actually, the present case is one of alleged fraudulent activity through which the predecessor of the petitioner was deprived of his title and therefore, the bar of jurisdiction provided under section of the ordinance, or of section of the act, is manifestly not applicable. this court then faced two options: either to decide the matter itself or to remit it to the learn ed trial court for a fresh decision. since page c.r. no. of -- both the learned courts below placed considerable emphasis on their findings regarding lack of jurisdiction and maintainability, while not properly appreciating the evidence on record, it would be appropriate to remand the matter to the learned trial court accordingly, this revision petition is allowed; the judgments and decrees impugned herein are hereby set aside and the case is remanded to the learned trial court for decision a fresh on the question of its jurisdiction in accordance with law, with liberty to the parties to address arguments on the basis of the available evidence and or to lead additional evidence in support of their respective pleadings and the issues framed therein. parties shall appea before the lea rned trial court concerned on .., where the suit of the petitioner shall be deemed pending for onward proceedings in terms of the above -mentioned order. signed (malik waqar haider awan) ..