page stereo. judgment sheet in the lahore high court at lahore. judicial department ptr no. of commissioner of income tax zone-c, lahore s. lahore grammer school (pvt.) ltd. gulberg, lahore judgment date of hearing .. applicant by: mian yousaf umar, advocate respondent by: s. shahbaz butt, ibrahim hassan and mazhar hussain tahir, advocates khalid ishaq, .. this court, however, on a challenge laid before the supreme court of pakistan by way of cpla no.-l of titled commissioner inland revenue, lahore v. lahore grammar school (pvt.) ltd. the supreme court of pakistan has remanded the matter vide .. in the following terms: the petitioner relied on letter dated .. from the office of the additional commissioner of income tax, lahore, whereby statutory approval to make addition of rs.,, under section ()(d) of the ordinance in the case of s. lahore grammar school (pvt.) ltd. for the tax year was granted. reference to this approval had been made in the penultimate page of the assessment made by the taxation officer, which is annexed at page- of the instant petition. no reference to the said approval has been made in the impugned order. we are of the view that the question whether or not the said approval dated .. was sufficient to vest power in the taxation officer to make addition of the above-mentioned amount under section ()(d) of the ordinance would be for the high court to determine. for this purpose, we deem it appropriate to remand the matter to the high court. the impugned order is, therefore, set aside and the matter is remanded to the high court in the above terms. the instant petition is converted into an appeal and is allowed accordingly. page ptr no. of page in a nub, the issue which had formed basis for initiating the proceedings against the respondent taxpayer, leading up to the filing of this reference application, was by way of invocation of section of the income tax ordinance, ordinance, by the revenue. since the claim of the revenue as well as the defence sought to be raised by the respondent taxpayer particularly relates to 2nd proviso of clause (e) of sub- section () of section of the ordinance, therefore, section () of the ordinance, is reproduced herein below: un-explained investments, etc., deemed to be income.- () where (a) any sum is found to be credited in the books of an assessee maintained for any income year; or (aa) the assessee is found to have made any investment or is found to be the owner of any money or valuable article, in any year; or (b) the assessee is found to have made any investment in any income year which is not recorded in the books of account maintained for that income year or is not shown in the wealth statement or return of wealth furnished under section in respect of that year; or (c) the assessee is found in respect of any income year to be the owner of any money or valuable article which is not recorded in the books of account, if any, maintained by him or is not shown by him in any wealth statement or return of wealth furnished under section in respect of that year; or (d) the assessee has made investment in any income year or is found in respect of any such year to be the owner of any valuable article and the deputy commissioner finds that the amount expended on making such investment or in acquiring such valuable article exceeds the amount recorded in this behalf in the books of account maintained by him or shown in the wealth statement or return of wealth furnished under section in respect of that year; or (e) an assessee has, during any income year, incurred any expenditure, and the assessee offers no explanation about the nature and source of such sum, investment, acquisition of the money or valuable article, excess amount or the money from which the expenditure was met, as the case may be, or the explanation offered by him is not, in the opinion of the deputy commissioner satisfactory, the sum so credited, the value of the investment, the money or the value of the article, the excess amount or the amount of the expenditure, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be the income of the assessee of such income year chargeable to tax under this ordinance: provided that, where any act referred to in clauses (a) to (e) is discovered after the assessment of income of the income year to which the said act relates has been made, the income chargeable to tax under this section shall be included in the total income of the income year relevant to the assessment year in which the said discovery is made: page ptr no. of page provided further that in cases referred to in clauses (aa) to (e) such income shall not be chargeable to tax unless approval of the inspecting additional commissioner has been obtained. emphasis supplied learned counsel for the applicant-department submits that the permission in terms of section ()(d) of the ordinance, was duly obtained and the document exhibiting the said approval was produced before the supreme court of pakistan by way of letter dated .., which letter has also been produced before us. the perusal of letter dated .. reflects that the same was issued by inspecting additional commissioner iac ). it is also of note that the assessment order was also passed on the same day i.e. ... while referring to section () of the income tax ordinance, ordinance, ), learned counsel for the applicant department has placed reliance upon commissioner of income tax peshawar v. s. islamic investment bank ltd. scmr to contend that it has been settled by the supreme court of pakistan that the whole purpose of incorporating section of the ordinance, was to preserve certain powers and procedure laid down in the repealed ordinance, so that it can be subsequently enforced in the post repeal era only in the matters which relate to the period covered under the repealed ordinance, learned counsel submits that by the dint of section of the ordinance, the entire set of procedures prescribed under the repealed law are saved for the purpose of reaching at the correct calculation of total income, therefore, the approval granted to the taxation officer, circle-og, companies zone-ii, lahore suffices for the purpose of 2nd proviso to section ()(d) of the ordinance, when read with section () of the ordinance, conversely, learned counsel for the respondent taxpayer argues that a sea-change was brought about by virtue of the promulgation of the ordinance, particularly viz the entire hierarchy of the taxation officers; further submits that at the relevant time, the term commissioner was defined under section () of the ordinance, to mean a person appointed as commissioner under section and includes a taxation officer vested with all or any powers or functions of the commissioner; page ptr no. of page adds that taxation officer, at the relevant time, is defined under section () of the ordinance, and meant to include any additional commissioner of income tax, deputy commissioner of income tax, income tax officer, special officer or any other officer, howsoever, designated by the board for the purpose of the ordinance, further adds that the income tax authorities have been provided under section () of the ordinance, and includes: (a) board, (b) regional commissioner of income tax, (c) commissioner of income tax, (d) commissioner of income tax (appeals) and (e) taxation officers; adds further that though the above definitions were subjected to subsequent changes, however, the referred definitions remained in field from .. to .., which are relevant for the purpose of case in hand; contends that the authority competent to grant approval was commissioner inland revenue under the new dispensation; further contends that commissioner inland revenue was further authorized to delegate his powers to subordinate authorities under section of the ordinance, however, no such delegation was either made or has been claimed by the revenue in this case. arguments heard. record perused. the tax year in question is -, which is relevant and falls in assessment year -. it is also an admitted position that on the touchstone of section of the ordinance, the applicable law for the purpose of the proceedings initiated by the revenue in this case was ordinance, as section () of the ordinance, clearly stipulates that subject to sub-section () in making any assessment in respect of any income year ending on or before the 30th day of june, the provisions of the repealed ordinance in so far as these relate to computation of total income and tax payable thereon shall apply as if this ordinance had not come into force however, it is also fall to be noted that although the applicable law was the ordinance, but similarly, sub-section () of section of the ordinance, requires that the assessment referred to in sub-section () shall be made by an income tax authority, which is competent under this ordinance to make an assessment in respect of a tax year ending on any date after the 30th day of june, the only inference, page ptr no. of page which may arise from a joint reading of both the sub-sections of section of the ordinance, leads to an ineluctable conclusion that the law applicable viz the assessment in respect of any income year ending on or before the 30th day of june, shall be the ordinance, but the competent authority for making such assessments shall be the authorities competent to proceed under the ordinance, this has a simple logical basis i.e. since the authority and the officers under the ordinance, had come to pass by virtue of the promulgation of the ordinance, therefore, the said authority was not existent for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of the tax laws, be it the ordinance, or the ordinance, the authority and competence, which has come to vest with the officers performing their power and authority in terms of ordinance, is evident from section of the ordinance, as it existed at the relevant time i.e. .. to ... an analysis of different provisions of ordinance, would reveal that under the new dispensation, all the functions and powers, to administer the purpose of the ordinance, vest with the commissioner(s) appointed under section or taxation officer(s) appointed and assigned functions or powers under section () of the ordinance, thus, in terms of sub section () of section of the ordinance, the afore-referred officers were the competent authority under the ordinance, which may can carry execute the purposes of ordinance, as and when the provisions thereof are attracted. in view of the foregoing, the authority competent to make assessment and determine tax liability for the purpose of case in hand, was the commissioner of income tax or a taxation officer appointed or empowered to do so under section () of the ordinance, needless to observe that no subordinate authority may have exercised the power of the commissioner, unless specifically delegated such power authority in terms of section () of the ordinance, and as a natural corollary, the statutory approval as couched under the 2nd proviso to section () of the of the ordinance, could only have been granted by the commissioner in writing, therefore, the reliance placed upon the authority having been conferred by virtue of letter dated .. is non-est of and no lawful page ptr no. of page consequences as neither the office of iac of income tax is recognized by the new dispensation under the ordinance, nor such an officer may be deemed to have existed for the purpose of the proceedings in terms of section (), read with section of the ordinance, for what has been discussed above, the proposed questions are answered in negative and resultantly this reference application is dismissed. office shall send a copy of this order under seal of the court to the appellate tribunal as per section () of the act. (hassan nawaz makhdoom) judge (khalid ishaq) (hassan nawaz makhdoom) judge (khalid ishaq)