page form no.hcjd order sheet in the lahore high court, lahore. judicial department cr no. of muhammad irfan butt another aliya nawaz s.no. of order proceeding date of order proceeding order with signature of .. sh. muhammad usman, advocate for petitioners. sh. saeed ahmad, advocate for respondent. the respondent, aliya nawaz, filed a suit for partition of property bearing no. -ix-7s- situated at lahore road, haji park, bar lab -e-lahore road city sheikhupura against the petitioners, who are her real brothers, by claiming that father of the arties, namely, muhammad ali butt son of ahmad bukhsh was owner of the suit property on the basis of sale deed bearing document no. dated .. which was purchased by him from one a leem -ud-din son of allah bakhsh. father of the parties died on by leaving behind the parties i.e. the respondent and her two brothers namely muhammad irfan butt and muhammad rizwan butt, who were his daughter and sons as his only legal heirs and respondent sought possession of her share in inheritance through partition of property, which suit was contested by the petitioner by claiming that their father had gifted the suit property to the petitioner on .. at about p.m. due to lo ve and affection in presence of witnesses ashiq ali butt son elahi bakhsh butt and anwar ali butt son of haji itbar ali butt at the bathak of the disputed property, which gift was accepted by the petitioner and possession was delivered to them. out of divergent pleadings of the arties, issues page cr no. of dated: .. were framed as to whether father of the parties had gifted suit property to the petitioner and whether the respondent was entitled to 5th share in the suit property and after recording of ev idence led by respective parties, the suit was ismissed by the trial court vide .., which findings were reversed by the appellate court vide .. on an appeal filed by the respondent and the court ordered to pass a preliminary decree in her favour by declarin the parties as legal heirs of the deceased and that gift in favour of the petitioner was not proved and held the respondent entitled to share in title and possession of property and as regards the question qua delivery of possession of property to the xtent of share of respondent, sent back the matter to trial court concerned for proceeding in accordance with law after passing of preliminary decree of partition of inherit ed property. the petitioner have challenged the said judgment on the ground tha father of the parties had gifted suit property to them on at about p.m. due to love and affection in presence of witnesses ashiq ali butt son elahi bakhsh butt and anwar ali butt son of haji itbar ali butt and respondent had been given he share in shape of cash amounting to rs.,, which was deposited by her in her account no. in general post off ice, railways road, sheikhupura, besides it was claimed that respondent had also received an amount of rs., from her father uring his life time. although the petitioner produced evidence in support of their claim of property being orally gifted to them, yet they were not able to establish transferring of property by their father to them through gift by proving date, time and place when the offer was made and accepted by them with delivery of possession under the gift and the evidence to that effect by afore referred page cr no. of dated: .. witnesses were also disbelieved by the appellate court. the petitioner also failed to prove that rs.,, deposited in the account of the respondent had been in lieu of her share in inheritance in the suit property and that she had also previously received rs. on the said account, whereas the respondent had proved that suit property belonged to he father and she being his legal heir was entitled to 5th share through inheritance in his property. in view of the principles laid down in the judgments of the supreme court in cases titled muhammad nawaz and others sakina bibi and others cmr and muhammad sarwar mumtaz bibi and others scmr ), the factum of oral gift is required to be prove through evidence of date, time and place where the gift was made by offer, acceptance in the presence of witness, hence, the afore said finding of fact recorded by the appellate court to the effect that the petitioner through evidence had not been able to prove gift in their favour is based on proper appreciation of evidence available on the record and law on the subject and does not suffer from any mis reading and non -reading of record. however, to establish their claim of gift on basis of other material available on record, the counsel for the petitioner states that respondent appeared before the civil court, where petitioner obtained succession certificate exh-d8 on .. in favour of petitioner no. upon respective conceding statement of petitioner no. and the respondent produced in evidence as exh- d5, whereby it is claimed that she had surrendered the title of th property to the petitioner and which is claimed to have strengthened, consolidated and established the claim of the petitioner of property having been gifted to them and it is claimed th at said succession certificate is binding on the responden and she cannot now claim any right to property. the question that arises page cr no. of dated: .. is that whether the succession certificate issued in favour of the petitioner no. relating to amount of rs. ,, in account no. sa in post office saving bank, (gpo), sheikhupura, left behind by the father of the parties relating to cash, is sufficient to deprive the respondent from claiming share in property, the answer is in the negative for the reason that the conceding statement got recorded by the respondent is merely for the purpose of amount lying in the post ffice saving account of the father of the parties and not relating to his property. furthermore, i the case titled mst. jameela akhtar public -at-large and others scmr ), the supreme court while addressing the question of determination of issue as to whether the claimant was a widow of the deceased arising out of the proceedings for issuance of succession certificate held that disputed question of title and entitlement could not be decided in such summary proceedings and should be determined by civil court through a civil suit. the operative portion of the said judgment is reproduced below: we find that the trial court while granting succession certificate to respondent no., should have directed that no share of the said amount should be paid to mst. umat ul hameed unless she gets a decree from the civil court about her status as widow of muhammad zafarullah khan, deceased, for such a question could not be decided in summary proceedings. for the foregoing reasons, we convert this petition into appeal, the same is partly accepted and the findings recorded by the courts below that respondent no. was the widow of muhammad zafarulah khan, deceased are hereby set aside and the said respon dent may file a civil suit to establish her status as widow of muhammad zafarullah khan, deceased and if she succeeds in getting a decree, the amount already received by her under succession certificate may be retained by her and in case the said suit is ecided against her, she shall refund the same to mst. zubaida akhtar, succession certificate holder, who shall distribute the same among the remaining heirs of page cr no. of dated: .. muhammad zafarullah khan, deceased. in case, mst. umat ul hameed files civil suit, the same shall be decided within six months positively. if no suit is filed within two months hereafter, she shall refund the amount to mst. zubaida akhtar, failing which the latter can recover it through the process of the court. similar view ha time and again been reiterated by the courts of law in cases reported as ijaz ghani khan district judge, karachi central and others (pld sindh wherein it has been held that issuance of letter of probate or succession certific ate cannot be treated as declaration with regard to legal heir ship or title of the parties but purpose and scope ther eof is always limited for specified purpose; in mst. nadia shakil and another shagufta baqar and another clc sindh ), it has been held that in disposed of succession petition only extension of letter of administration was permissible under ection of succession act, on subsequent discovery of any other estate of deceased which inadvertently or for any reason co uld not be mentioned in original succession petition and succession certificate could also be revoked on the grounds provided in ection of succession act, in sofia ashfaq haseeb ashfaq bhatti and others (pld islamabad it has been eld that proceedings before trial court in grant of succession certificate under section of succession act, are summary in nature. intricate questions cannot be resolved in such proceedings and question of title to property have to be left to be decided in a suit before court of plenary jurisdiction; in liaqat zaman khan and others mst. tazeem akhtar and others ylr peshawar) the question of right of widow to inherit from deceased husband was under consideration, the court held that the law allowed the of dated: .. who appeared to be a person having prima facie the best title thereto, notwithstanding a rival claim appearing to in dawa khan secretary (sarfoon), govt. of pakistan, islamabad others plc (cs) peshawar) in a suit for declaration filed to seek share in shuhada package, gratuity and family pension of a deceased police constable who had embraced martyrdom the right of wife and children of deceased employee declared by grant of succession certificat was upheld by dismissing claim of other legal heirs who claimed the same as share in inheritance by declaring it to be a benefit of service and not an inheritable property; and in malik muhammad rafique mst. tanvir jahan and another (pld islamabad ), it has been held that proceedings under the succession act, were summary in nature and disputed status of parties to inherit property as legal heirs could be determined through a civil suit. in all the aforementioned case s, it has repeatedly been held that the proceedings for obtaining succession certificate are summary in nature and the disputed questions of title and entitlement to relief cannot be determined therein and resort should be made to the court of plenary jurisdiction for determi nation of disputed facts through a civil suit and the determination by the court in a civil suit is binding on courts granting succession certificates in summary jurisdiction whereas the findings recorded by the court granting succession certificate cannot be a hindrance or impediment in the way of the civil court to reach a contrary decision while determining the question of title or right in the matter. in the instant case, there is another important aspect of the matter that petitioner no. had als got page cr no. of dated: .. recorded his conceding statement in favour of petitioner no. in the said case and if the assertion of the petitioner that respondent had surrendered her share in the property by getting recorded her conceding statement (exh -d5) in a ob taining succession certificate is treated to be true, then petitioner no. would also not be entitled to any share in property on the same assumption for the reason that he also got recorded similar statement recorded in the same case which is evident from statements of the parties in the obtaining succession certificate got exhibited in the instant case as exh -d5, thus the petitioner cannot be allowed to blow hot and cold in the same breath. in view thereof, it is held that the respondent by getting her conceding statement recorded in the petition to obtain succession certificate in favour of petitioner no. has not conceded her right to obtain her share in inheritance in property left by her father. despite vehement efforts by learned counse for the petitioners, no illegality or jurisdictional defect, mis-reading or non -reading of the relevant record has been pointed out, whereby well reasoned judgment appellate court could be set-aside. consequently, the appellate court was justi fied to set -aside the judgment of dismissal of suit the trial court and rightly directed that preliminary decree be passed. for what has been discussed above, this petition being devoid of any force is dismissed. (muzamil akhtar shabir