page str no. form hcjd order sheet in the lahore high court, multan bench, multan (judicial department) str no. of the commissioner inland revenue, legal zone, large taxpayers office, multan. redco enterprises s.no.of order proceeding date of order proceeding order with signature of judge, and that of parties or counsel, where necessary .. malik muhammad shehzad awan, advocate for applicant. abdul sattar saqib shahzad, advocates for the respondent. this and connected sales tax reference applications, bearing no. of of of and of raise common questions of law and are hereby decided through single judgment (additional issue is argued in str no. and same is dealt separately ). following questions of law are pressed for determination; i) whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the learned appellate tribunal ir was justified to ignore that through finance act, scope of the provisions of section (1a) has been enhanced to zero rated supplies by insertion of section therein? ii) whether on the facts and circumstances of the case ld. atir was justified to hold that provisions of sro () being special procedure framed u of the act has overriding effect on the provisions of section (1a) by ignoring () of the act? page str no. notably, the amendments made in section (1a) and section of the sales tax act through finance act are relevant, which amended provisions are reproduced hereunder, for quick contextual understanding, section (1a). subject to the provision of sub section () of section or any notification issued thereunder, where taxable supplies are made to a person who has not obtained registration number or he is not an active taxpayer, there shall be charged, levied and paid a further tax at the rate of four per cent of the value in addition to the rate specified in sub -section (), (1b), (), (), () and section section (). zero rating. notwithstanding the provisions of section except those of sub -section (1a) the following goods shall be charged to tax at the rate of zero per cent a) b) c) such goods as the federal government may by notification in the official gazette, specify through finance act, insertion of section in section (1a) of the act and section (1a) in section of the act manifest paradigm shift in zero -rated regime. case of the registered person (s) is that no liability arises for failing to collect charge further tax, in terms of section (1a) of the act, when exemption was extended to supplies made under special procedure, framework prescribed in terms of sro () dated .., inter alia issued in exercise of powers under section of the act whereby special procedure was page str no. prescribed for charging levy of sales tax on the supplies made by identified five industrial sectors even to unregistered persons and without the obligation to charge collect further tax. it is claimed that through sro () dated 1st july imposing of further tax in wake of supplies to unregistered persons change was introduced in further tax regime but said sro was declared ultra vires while handing down judgment in the case of t. u. plastic industry co. (pvt.) ltd. federation of pakistan and others ptd ). it is further claimed that declaration against sro () had the effect of resurrecting concessional special regime, previously applicable in terms of sro () and following decisions are cited in support of submissions, which are reported as commissioiner inland revenue, zone -i, regional tax office, quetta v. messrs hajvairy steel industries (pvt.) limited, quetta and another scmr and messrs rajby industries karachi and others v. federation of pakistan and others scmr ). decision, dated .., in the case of commissioiner inland revenue v. ittehad (pvt.) ltd. faisalabad (str no. ), is also cited page str no. as precedent to explain position upon declaration against sro () decision in the case of (str no. was followed while deciding str conversely, case of the applicant department is that decisions in reference applications, bearing str no. and str are distinguishable, wherein effect of amendments made in sections (1a) and of the act were neither considered and nor subject ed to adjudication. adds that judgment, dated .., of this court in str no. of titled as commissioiner inland revenue, zone -i, gujranwala v. yarn kings pvt. limited, gujranwala is attracted on all fours to the issues at hand, wherein effect of amendments in sections (1a) and of the act were considered, threadbare. heard. pivotal issue is the effect of amendments made in sections (1a) of the act, through finance act in the context of section of the act and sro () or () for that matter; and, hether ratio of the decision in the case of commissioiner inland page str no. revenue v. ittehad (pvt.) ltd. faisalabad (str no. is applicable. it is appropriate to reproduce .., passed in str no. on an appeal filed by the respondent the appellate tribunal held that since the sro no.() had been declared ultra vires by the court, the registered persons would be relegated to a situation whereby sro no.() would be in field which clearly prescribed that the supplies made to persons whether registered or unregistered were subject to zero rate of tax. therefore, the question of charging of further tax did not arise. there is no reason for us to disagree with the findings of the appellate tribunal. the questions of law are decided against the applicant and this reference application is dismissed it is evident from perusal of aforesaid order that effect of amendments in sections (1a) and of the act was not adjudicated in follow -up to order of .., .. was passed in commissioiner inland revenue v. chaudhary industries (str no. ), wherein though the first question was similar to the one, we are confronted with in reference applications, but no opinion discussion adjudication was found vis -à-vis common question and simply (str no. was decided in terms of order of ... hence, question of effect of amendments remained unadjudicated. page str no. on the converse, decision in commissioiner inland revenue, zone -i, gujranwala v. yarn kings pvt. limited, gujranwala (str no. of is fully attracted, wherein amendments in sections (1a) and of the act were duly considered and primacy thereof, over special procedure prescribed by statutory regulatory orders, were affirmed. we follow the ratio settled in the case of yarn kings pvt limited, gujranwala (supra) str no. of on the premise that legislative effect extended throug finance act by amending section (1a) and section of the act, obligates charging collection of further tax, notwithstanding supplies made under zero -rated regime to unregistered persons zero -rated regime is not akin to exemption regime in terms of section reads with sixth schedule of the act. insertion of section (1a) of the act in section of the act created a non-obstante effect, protecting the impost of further tax notwithstanding existence and application of zero -rated regime. effect and significance of legislative fiat cannot be undermined or annulled by relying on statutory notification, issued under section (c) of the act, page str no. though read with section of the act even otherwise sro.() was issued before insertion of section (1a) in section of the act post -finance act section (c) of the act has to be read subject to the protection extended to further tax regime upon insertion of section (1a) of the act and particularly by extending it immunity, otherwise. argument that, upon revival, sro () would prevail over legislative amendments and claim of continuing exemption from the charging and collection of further tax is fallacious. legislative command deserves due deference. we concur with the reasoning and ratio settled in the case of yarn kings pvt limited, gujranwala (supra) str no. of which reflects the correct position of law. we have examined decisions in the cases of messrs hajvairy steel industries (pvt) limited quetta and another (supra) and messrs rajby industries karachi and others (supra), which extend no support and ratio therein cannot be construed to undermine the effect of amendment in sections (1a) and of the act, post -finance act a reference by tribunal to page str no. the case of commissioner inland revenue and others v. acro spinning and weaving mills ltd. multan and others scmr ), is misconceived, which confusion has to be addressed by reproducing concerning paragraph therefrom, which reads as, we may note for completeness that the learned counsel for the department submitted that by the finance act, section was specifically amended such that the opening words now read as follows: notwithstanding the provisions of section except those of subsection (1a)... it may also be noted that the said finance act also amended section (1a), such that the various provisions listed therein now also include section however, it is common ground that these amendments have no bearing on, or relevance for, the matters at hand amendments in sections (1a) and of the act have had prospective effect, which is evident from the aforesaid paragraph from the case of acro spinning and weaving mills ltd. in view of the above, question proposed are answered in negative, in favour of the department and against the taxpayer. reference applications are allowed in aforesaid terms. tribunal had annulled show cause notice and consequent orders, primarily on the question of ineffectiveness of amendments, without touching the merits of the liability determined. hence, we deem it appropriate to remand the matter to the page str no. tribunal for decision on merits of the liability, afresh. appeals shall be deemed pending before the tribunal. office to send copy of this order under the seal of the court to the appellate tribunal for information. (abid hussain chattha) (asim hafeez) judge. judge. approved for reporting judge. judge. a.d. mian