page hcjda judgment sheet in the lahore high court, lahore judicial department crl. appeal no. of naseem alias seemay shah the state, etc. judgment date of hearing: ... appellant by: ch. shahid ihsan warraich, advocate. state by: deputy district public prosecutor. farooq haider, j.:- this appeal has been filed by naseem alias seemay shah (appellant convict against the .. learned additional sessions gujrat trial court, whereby in case arising out of f.i.r no. dated: .. registered under section: () (c) of the control of narcotic substances act, at police station: doulat nagar, district: gujrat, trial court has convicted and sentenced the appellant; in this regard, relevant portion of the impugned judgment is hereby scanned below: page crl. appeal no. briefly, as per case of prosecution narrated in the crime report (f.i.r. ex.pa) got recorded by muhammad asif, a.s.i. (complainant pw-) is that on .., on spy information, appellant was apprehended by the complainant and other police officials and on his personal search, a blue coloured polythene shopping bag containing chura type (وچرا منا )charas and amount of rs. as sale proceeds رمق وٹ were recovered from his possession; on weighing the recovered charas, it was found -grams; out of the recovered charas, at the ratio of charas weighing -grams was separated as sample for getting chemical analysis from pfsa; sample, remaining case pro perty and amount of sale proceeds (رمق وٹ )were secured into separate sealed parcels with the stamp of ma and taken into possession through recovery memo (ex.p d); for ready reference, relevant portion of the crime report (f.i.r. ex.pa) is hereby scanned below: after investigation, challan report was sent to the court against the appellant; charge was framed against him, to which he pleaded not guilty; prosecution produced its evidence. rial court recorded statement of the appellant under section: cr.p.c. wherein he refuted allegations leveled against him; he did not appear as his own witness under section () cr.p.c. to disprove the alle gations levelled against him however during cross examination over hasnat ahmad, mhc (moharrar pw-), brought road certificate no. on record as ex.da. trial court after hearing learned page crl. appeal no. counsel for the parties, passed the impugned judgment, whereby appellant was convicted and sentenced as mentioned above. learned counsel for the appellant has contended that safe custody of the case property has not been proved; therefore, conviction recorded and sentence awarded through impugned judgment a re liable to be set -aside; finally requested for acceptance of instant appeal. on the other hand, learned deputy district public prosecutor has supported the impugned judgment and requested for dismissal of instant appeal. after hearing learned cou nsel for the appellant, learned deputy district public prosecutor and going through the record, it has been noticed that zafar hussain, sub -inspector (investigating officer of the case) while appearing before the court as pw- during trial of the case stated that he received parcel of sample from the moharrar on .. and deposited the same in the office of punjab forensic science agency, lahore on the same day, intact; in this regard, relevant portion of his statement is hereby reproduced as under: on .., hasnat ahmad hc moharrar handed over the sealed sample parcel to me for its onwards transmission to pfsa collection centre gujranwala, which i deposited the same on the same day intact. (emphasis added whereas, hasnat ahmad, mhc (moharrar of the police station) while appearing before the court as pw- admitted during his cross -examination that the relevant road certificate through which the sample was sent to punjab forensic science agency, lahore is bearing sr. no. and the same is available with the police file as ex.da; he further stated that the road certificate was chalked out on .. and sample was delivered on ..; in this regard, relevant portion of his statement is hereby reproduced as under: it is correct that the relevant road certificate through which the sample was sent to pfsa is bearing serial no. and the same is available with police file exhda. road certificate was chalked on .. and sample was delivered on ... (emphasis added page crl. appeal no. for ready reference, road certificate (ex.da) is hereby scanned as under: perusal of aforementioned road certificate (ex.da) clearly reveals that hasnat ahmad mhc (moharrar pw -) sent parcel of sample in the case to pfsa through zafar hussain, sub -inspector (pw-) and as per its column no., date time of departure of said police of ficial from the police station is .. at a.m. and said road certificate was chalked out on ... though hasnat ahmad mhc (moharrar pw -) has stated during his cross -examination that road certificate (ex.da) was chalked out on .. and sample was delivered on .. (as mentioned above) yet it is relevant to mention here that said portion of his statement i.e. regarding deliv ery of sample on .. is against the contents of road certificate bearing no. (ex.da) because it has been clearly mentioned therein that date time of departure from the police station was .. at a.m. it is trite law that oral evidence cannot be given preference over documentary evidence and in this regard, case of sher muhammad and others muhammad khalid and others scmr can be advantageously referred and relevant portion from its paragraph no. is hereby reproduced as under: page crl. appeal no. both the courts were one in holding, and rightly so, that oral evidence which was contrary to the documentary evidence could not be given preference over the said documentary evidence. (emphasis added even otherwise, it is also well settled that documentary evidence is always considered as best evidence and best evidence rule excludes the oral assertions depositions; in this regard, case of maqbool ahmed state, etc. (plj cr.c.) can al so be safely referred. similarly, case of muhammad khan deceased through l.rs. muhammad akram clc can also be referred on the subject and relevant portion from its paragraph no. is hereby reproduced as under: it is trite that once a document has been proved in accordance with law, the genuineness of its contents can be presumed and the rule that the "document speaks for itself" (acta probant sese ipsa) can be deployed. the rationale behind the presumptions attached to written documen ts stem out of both principle as well as policy. the presumptions are a matter of principle because written documents are, by their very nature. to be accorded a higher degree of credibility as opposed to oral evidence; otherwise, it would bring uncertaint and chaos if written documents (and valuable rights, if any, attached to them) were allowed to be set aside on the basis of oral evidence. (emphasis added it is further relevant to mention here that a document can be rebutted by a document having better legal sanctity only; it goes without saying that documentary evidence always takes preference over the oral deposition assertion because man can tell a lie but document cannot; in this regard, case of al baraka bank (pakistan) limi ted through authorized attorneys sui northern gas pipelines limited through general manager can be safely quoted and relevant portion from its paragraph no. is hereby reproduced as under: it is settled law that the documentary evidence always takes preference over the oral deposition as the man can tell a lie but a document cannot. a document can be rebutted by the document having better legal sanctity only. in this regard reliance is placed on the cases of abdul gha ni and others v. mst. yasmeen khan and others scmr and saleem akhtar v. nisar ahmad (pld lahore ). (emphasis added on the subject, case of munir ahmad and others zafar iqbal and others can also be advantageously page crl. appeal no. quoted and relevant portion from its paragraph no. is hereby reproduced as under: it is settled principle of law that mere oral assertion is not sufficient to rebut the documentary evidence whereas documentary evidence legall take preference over the oral assertion as the document does not tell lie. a document can only be rebutted by the document having superior legal value. in this regard, reliance is placed on the cases of abdul ghani and others v. mst. yasmeen khan and oth ers scmr and saleem lahore ). (emphasis added it is also relevant to mention here that entries in column no. and of the road certificate ex.da regarding date time of departure of the police official i.e. .. at a.m. from the police station with aforementioned parcel of sample and mentioning of pfsa in column no. as well as in the caption of ex.da, could not be negated through any other document having better lega san ctity superior legal value by the prosecution. upshot of the above -discussion is that as per contents of road certificate (ex.da), parcel of sample was collected by zafar hussain, sub inspector (pw -) on .. from moharrar of the police statio (pw -) for taking the same to p.f.s.a and he made departure from the police station on .. at a.m., however, as per report of pfsa (ex.pe), he deposited said parcel of sample in the office of pfsa on ..; meaning thereby that after receiving parcel of sample in the case and making departure from the police station on .. at a.m., parcel of the sample was retained by zafar hussain, sub -inspector (pw -), he did not deposit it on the same day in the office of pfsa rat her deposited the same over there with the delay of one day i.e. on .. and any explanation whatsoever in this regard that why he did not deposit parcel of sample on .. in the office of pfsa, has not been furnished by the prosecution. it is very much important to mention here that if for any reason whatsoever, said parcel of sample could not be deposited in the office of pfsa by zafar hussain, sub -inspector (pw -) on .., then he was duty bound to return the same to the moharrar of the police station on the same day and then to recollect it for submitting the same on other day when he was going to deposit the same in said office. page crl. appeal no. in view of what has been discussed above, chain of safe custody of the parcel of sample has been compromised in this case i.e. the same has not been established proved in this case. now law is well settled on the point that chain of safe custody of parcel of sample as well as of allegedly recovered case property is to be proved othe rwise, conviction is not possible and it straightaway leads to the acquittal of the accused because recovery of narcotics is not a mere corroboratory piece of evidence rather it constitutes the offence itself and entails punishment. uidance in this regard has been sought from the cases of the state through regional director anf imam bakhsh and others scmr ), abdul ghani and others the state and others scmr ), muhammad hazir the state scmr ), asif ali and another the state through prosecutor general punjab scmr ), sarfraz ahmed the state scmr and muhammad iqbal the state through p.g. sindh scmr ). since safe custody of the parcel of sample tak en out of the recovered substance has not been proved in this case; therefore, conclusiveness of the report of punjab forensic science agency, lahore (ex.pe) has been impaired, its sanctity has been eroded and it has become unreliable; in this regard, guid ance has been sought from the case of amjad ali the state scmr and relevant portion of the same from paragraph no. is hereby reproduced as under: although the prosecution sought to corroborate the testimony of p.w. and p.w. with the report of the forensic science laboratory to the effect that the contraband item recovered from the secret cavities was charas yet the sanctity of the said report (exh.pk) was eroded when p.w. manir khan in cross -examination could not correctly reply as to where the samples remained between the dates those were allegedly taken into possession from the car and the date those were received by the forensic science laborat ory i.e. -- to --. he even could not tell the date as to when the samples were sent for examination and which official had taken the samples to the laboratory. furthermore, cases of the state through regional directo anf imam bakhsh and others (mentioned supra and mst. shahida page crl. appeal no. bibi the state and another ylr can also be advantageously referred on the subject. by now it is also well settled that if safe custody of allegedly recovered substance or parcel of sample case property has not been proved then, there is no need to discuss other merits of the case and it straightaway leads to the acquittal of the accused; in this regard, guidance has been sought from the supra cases of abdul ghani and others the state and others and the state through regional director anf imam bakhsh it is trite law that single dent in case of prosecution is sufficient for acquittal, in this regard, reliance can be placed upon the cases of muhammad mans ha the state scmr ), abdul jabbar and another the state scmr ), mst. asia bibi the state and others (pld sc and amir muhammad khan the state scmr ), muhammad nawaz and another the state and others scmr and muhammad bilal the state scmr ). nutshell of the above discussion is that prosecution has been failed to prove its case against the appellant beyond shadow of doubt hence there is no need to discuss defence version. in view of all above, instant appeal is allowed accepted, conviction recorded and sentence awarded to the appellant through impugned .. passed in aforementioned subject case, are hereby set aside. appellant is acquitted of the charge and will be released from jail forthwith if not requir ed in any other case. page crl. appeal no. office is directed to immediately send copy of this judgment to the inspector general of police, punjab, lahore for his perusal and with the proposal to consider the suitability of preparing road certificate in appropriate fo rm while mentioning required details in the same in express manner words for sending the case property from police station to the court, laboratory or at any other relevant office. (muhammad tariq nadeem (farooq haider (muhammad tariq nadeem (farooq haider pronounced prepared and signed on ... kashif