page form no. hcjd order sheet in the lahore high court lahore judicial department w.p. no. of muhammad imran mst. maham manzoor and others sr. no. of order proceeding date of order proceeding order with signature of judge, and that of parties of counsel, where necessary .. muhammad rizwan warraich, advocate for the petitioner with petitioner in person. sh. muhammad tariq inaam, advocate for respondent nos. to with respondent in person. the instant constitutional petition has arisen from contest over custody of the minor who is now approximately -years (dob .. ). the petition brought under section of the guardian and wards act, by petitioner who is the father was accepted by .. of the learned guardian judge, sialkot which order was interfered with in appeal that was accepted by the learned district judge, sialkot who vide .. set aside the same and entrusted the minor to the maternal gr andmother instead of the two litigating parents who are both now with second spouses. they also both have progeny from the ir second marriages. the petitioner has five offspring whereas respondent no., mst. maham manzoor, has two children from second marri age. in the circumstances the sole issue mst. maryam imran out of the annulled wedlock inter se the petitioner and respondent no. is living with the maternal grandmother which arrangement has been affirmed as a result of the .. of the earned district judge, sialkot. both sides on question of visitation have apprised that matter to such extent is pending before the competent court. the child is at an age where her intelligent preference could be obtained in exercise of sub -section of the section of the guardian and wards act, the page w.p.no. of judgment of the learned district sialkot has been examined and it appears that one of the pivotal reason to persuade the mind of the appellate ourt was the voice of the child who wanted live with the maternal grandmother and was comfortable. on scrutiny of the record and these aspects the ourt also deemed it appropriate to examine the child from such point of view qua which a specific .. was earlier made. the chil is present in court who is clad in neat and clean clothes. she has a friendly demeanour and is clearly old enough to be heard in the matter. in this regard in its .. in c.r.p. no. of titled dr. muhammad asif v. dr. sana satt ar and others the () of section of the guardians and wards act, ruled as under: the phrase "welfare of the minor can no longer be confined to its colonial -era meaning. instead, it must be enriched by the modern, internationally recognized concept of the best interests of the child, as codified in article of the crc, to which pakistan is a state party. the "welfare" standard is thus not static, it is a living standard that encompasses a child's emotional, psychological, cultural, and developmental needs, extending far beyond material well-being or parental preference. moreover, the right of the child to be heard, as guaranteed by article of the crc, must also be read into the application of section any genuine assessment of the child's welfare or best interests is incomplete without ensuring the child's meaningful participation in the proceedings, appropriate to their age and maturity. by interpreting section in this harmonized manner, consistent with both international obligations and constitutional values, courts affirm that the provision requires not only an objective inquiry into what serves the child's welfare but also a procedural obligation to hear the child and give due consideration to their voice. this interpretive approach ensures that even a law as old as the act remains a relevant and effective tool for delivering jus tice that is sensitive to the rights and realities of children today. to interpret it otherwise would be to render the statute obsolete, unfit for the constitutional and child -rights -informed present. page w.p.no. of voice of the child we underline that a child must be heard so that her best interests can be properly understood and protected. the participation of a child in legal proceedings is not a formality; it is fundamental to a listening to the voice of a child gives them a sense of worth, inclusion, and trust in the judicial process. as clarified in the un general comment no. the views of the child must be seriously considered, not merely acknowledged. listening to a child does not mean obeyi ng them, but rather understanding their perspective deeply enough to act in their best interests. before parting with this judgment, we find it necessary to underscore that this decision must serve as a directive to all courts, particularly family courts and judges of the district judiciary: the voice of the child must be heard and respected in every custody and guardianship matter. this is not an aspirational goal but a binding obligation under the crc. we conclude this judgment with the words of james baldwin, who said: the children are always ours, every single one of them, all over the globe; i am beginning to suspect that whoever is incapable of recognizing this may be incapable of morality." these words are a solemn reminder that courts, especia lly family courts have a moral and legal responsibility to see, hear, and protect every child not as a passive subject of proceedings, but as a rights -bearing individual whose dignity must be safeguarded at every stage of the judicial process. the mino was allowed to express herself freely before the court and has affirmed that she wishes to live with her maternal grandmother who is devoted to her, cares for her and whom she also likes very much. she states that since her birth she is accustom ed to her company and the petitioner father has not taken much trouble to reach out to her or to shower her with paternal affection. the case as such presents peculiar circumstances in which both former spouses appear steeped in their respective matrimonial li ves with their second spous es and have children from those matrimonies whereas the maternal grandmother is devoted to the minor before the court. the senior lady herself is also in attendance who page w.p.no. of appears to be alert and in good health who is expected to do her duty by the neglected child, spend time with her and guide her to enter into adulthood with a repaired spirit that a the moment appears to carry the melancholy of her father neglect which he shall make every effort to rectify by paying regular maint enance allowance while the court concerned where the matter on visitation is stated ly pending according to the parties shall ensure that a working visitation schedule is immediately enforced on receipt of this order and is duly finalized keeping the welfar of the minor at the heart of such structure. entrusting custody with the maternal grandmother of minor daughters who are in such sensitive years of their development when they need the presence of sincere maternal care in certain situations is not alien to the policy of law and a number of precedents exist in this regard. rule in ameer mai and others v. addl. district mld muhammad azeem v. addl. district judge, sialkot and others ylr ), mst. rasheedan bibi v. addl. district clc ), mst. jamal and others v. addl. district judge, jatoi, district muzaffargarh and another clc ), mst. naseem akhtar v. district judge, multan and others scmr and major zafar iqbal v. st. rehmat jan and another scmr may be cited. the order of the learned district dismis sed. (rasaal hasan syed)