page stereo. hc jd a judgment sheet in the lahore high court, bahawalpur bench, bahawalpur judicial department criminal revision no. of (ghulam hassan the state and four others ... petitioner by: ch. mussadiq munir, advocate. respondent no. to by: state by: ch. sarfraz noor meo, advocate. deputy district public prosecutor. sadiq mahmud khurram, .p.c., the petitioner has assailed the .., the learned additional sessions judge, yazman, whereby his application seeking the summon ing of the respondent no. to namely tariq mehmood, muhammad usman and gohar javed alias muhammad javed to face the trial of the case f.i.r no. of registered at the police station saddar yazman, district bahawalpur, was dismi ssed. the brief facts of the case are that the petitioner got the f.i.r no. of registered at the police station saddar yazman, district bahawalpur, in respect of offences under sections and p.p.c. and after he conclusion of the investigation, the respondent no. to namely tariq mehmood, muhammad usman and gohar javed alias muhammad javed, were page crl. revision no. of declared as not to be involved in the case and in the report under section cr.p.c. their names were placed in column no.. after the learned trial court had taken cognizance of the case, the petitioner, moved an application before the learned additional sessions judge, yazman seeking the summoning of the respondent no. to namely tariq mehmood, muhammad usman and gohar javed alias muhammad javed, whose names had been placed in column no. of the report under section cr.p.c., however, vide impugned .., the said application of the petitioner was dismissed, hence, this petition. the learned counsel for the petitioner, inter alia, contended that the .. the learned additional sessions judge, whereby he refused to summon the respondent no. to as accused to face the trial of the case, was liable to be set-aside being against the facts and the law; that the learned additional sessions however, ha not discussed at all as to whether there was any evidentiary materia available as against the respondent no. to which could be considered sufficient for proceeding against them; that there was sufficient material available against the respondent no. to in the shape of the statements of the witnesses recorded durin the investigation of the case, to proceed with their trial. learned counsel for the respondent no. to namely tariq mehmood, muhammad usman and gohar javed alias muhammad javed submitted that the impugned .., page crl. revision no. of the learned additional sessions the learned deputy district public prosecutor submitted that the names of the respondent no. to namely tariq mehmood, muhammad usman and gohar javed alias muhammad javed, were placed in column no. of the report under cr.p.c. therefore, it was necessary that some further material be brought on record before they could be summoned to face the trial of the case, therefore, the order the le arned additional sessions judge, dated .., did not merit any interference. i have heard the arguments advance by the learned counsel for the petitioner, the learned counsel for the respondent no. to namely tariq mehmood, muhammad usman and gohar javed alias muhammad javed, the learned deputy district public prosecutor and perused the record with their able assistance. a perusal of the record reveals that the petitioner got the f.i.r no. of registered at the police station saddar yazman, district bahawalpur, in respect of offences under sections and p.p.c. and after the conclusion of the investigation, the respondent no. namely tariq mehmood, muhammad usman and gohar javed alias muhammad javed, were declared as not to be involved in the case and in the report under section cr.p.c. their names were placed in column no.. after the learned trial court had taken cogni zance of the case, the petitioner, moved an application before the learned additional sessions judge, yazman seeking the summoning of the respondent no. to namely tariq mehmood, muhammad usman and gohar javed alias muhammad javed, whose page crl. revision no. of names had been placed in column no. of the report under section cr.p.c., however, vide impugned .., the said application of the petitioner was dismissed. it is a fact that the respondent no. to namely tariq mehmood, muhammad usman and gohar javed alias muhammad javed were not only named in the f.i.r as accused but were also named as accused in the statements of the witnesses recorded under section cr.p.c. though it is correct that the investigating officer of the case, had declared that the respondent no. to namely tariq mehmood, muhammad usman and gohar javed alias muhammad javed, were not involved in the incident at all, however, the said opinion of the investigating officers of the case, were not even relevant to be considered whi le adjudicating upon the application of the petitioner seeking summoning of the respondent no. to namely tariq mehmood, muhammad usman and gohar javed alias muhammad javed to face the trial of the case, as the question of the summoning was to be decide within the parameters of section cr.p.c.. in this particular case, it is obvious that there was evidentiary material in the shape of not only the f.i.r but also the statements of the witnesses recorded under section cr.p.c. to proceed with the tr ial of the respondent no. to namely tariq mehmood, muhammad usman and gohar javed alias muhammad javed. moreover, the learned additional sessions judge, while passing the .., only referred to the result of the investigation as condu cted by one of the investigating officers of the case, however, did not at all advert to the statements of the witnesses recorded during the investigation of the case, wherein the respondent no. to namely tariq mehmood, muhammad page crl. revision no. of usman and gohar javed a lias muhammad javed, were duly implicated. the august supreme court of pakistan, has already held that the learned trial court can summon any accused whose name has been placed in column no. of the report under section cr.p.c. to face the trial of the case before recording of any evidence when there is sufficient material available against him and there is no bar whatsoever in this regard placed on the learned trial court. moreover, the august supreme court of pakistan has also held that the accused as having been declared by the investigating officer of the case not to be involved in the case, should not be made a consideration while adjudicating upon the application under section cr.p.c. for the simple reason that the august supreme court of pakis tan has already held that the opinion of the investigating officer of the case is not only irrelevant but also not admissible in evidence. in this regard reliance is placed upon the case titled safdar ali zafar iqbal and others scmr ), wherein the august supreme court of pakistan has held as under: it is well -entrenched legal principle that "when a magistrate takes cognizance under section ()(b) on a police report he takes cognizance of the offence and not merely of a particular person charged in the report as an offender. he can, therefore, issue process against other persons who also appear to him on the basis of the report and other material placed before him when he has taken cognizance of the case, to be concerned in the commission of the offence when he does so he does not act under clause (c), therefore, section is not applicable." (mehrab v. emperor (f. b.) cr.lj lai bihari singh v. emperor cr.lj ). on the touchstone of criterion as discussed hereinabove we are of the considered view that the order learned llaqa magistrate dated -- is neither perverse nor capricious but on the other hand it has been passed after having an in -depth scrutiny of the entire record and thus, it cannot be termed as non speaking as held by the learned high court in the impugned judgment and being unexceptionable it hardly calls for any interference. we are inclined to convert this petition into appeal and accordingly while allowing the same the impugned order, dated -- is hereby. set aside being violative of the relevant provisions of law and consequently order, dated -- is page crl. revision no. of restored. the learned trial court is directed to proceed with the case in accordance with law." reliance is also placed on the cas es of waqar ul haq alias nithoo and another the state scmr ), wherein the august supreme court of pakistan has held as under: the contention is that first evidence should be recorded and if in the light of such evidence the trial court deems it proper to summon them only then they may be summoned. the point involved in this case is that three persons have been accused of the offence out of which one muhammad rafiq was placed in column no. whereas the present petitioner were placed in column no.. the accused person whose name appears in column no. of the challan can be summoned by the trial court directly to stand the trial and it is not necessary that first some evidence should be recorded. in the present case the challan against the petitioner had not been cancelled by placing them in column no.. it only meant that according to the police investigation they were found innocent, and therefore, they were discharged under section of the cr.p.c. however it does not mean that they co uld not be summoned to stand trial by the sessions court. in that view of the matter we do not find any substance in this petition which is accordingly dismissed. reliance is also placed on the cases of sher muhammad unar and others the state (pld sc wherein the august supreme court of pakistan has held as under: the court is not bound by such a finding of innocence reflected in the final report submitted under section cr.p.c. and it can still summon the accused. reliance is also placed on the cases of falak sher and another the state (pld sc ), wherein the august supreme court of pakistan has held as under: now, the question is, if be disagrees with the report, can he take action under clause (k against those whose names have been placed under column of the challan. as already pointed out, the magistrate is not bound by the report submitted by the police under section when the said report is received by the magistrate, the magistrate on he report itself may not agree with the conclusions reached by the investigating officer. there is page crl. revision no. of nothing in section to prevent a magistrate from taking cognizance of the case under clause by in spite of the police report. this court in the case of sa rdar ali and others v. the state p. s. l. a. no. of while dealing in a similar question, observed: "reference to section cr. p. c., which prescribes the details that must go into a police report of relevant kind shows that the requirements a re of a factual nature, so that, irrespective of the investigating officer's opinion, a magistrate takes cognizance on a police report, when he proceeds against a person whose name is mentioned therein as one accused of the offence reported upon." in conclusion, we may observe that this has been the consistent view of the high court of west pakistan and that correctly interpreted the meaning and scope of sections and of the code of criminal procedure in muhammad naira: khan v. noor muhammad and others (p ld lah. ). for the reasons stated above, we see no ground for interference with the order of the high court and accordingly dismiss this appeal. in view of the above discussion, this petition is allowed and the learned trial cour is directed to summon the respondent no. to namely tariq mehmood, muhammad usman and gohar javed alias muhammad javed to face the trial of the case f.i.r no. of registered at the police station saddar yazman, district bahawalpur and proceed with the conclusion of the trial in accordance with the law. obviously, the learned trial court shall base its findings upon the facts proved before it during the course of the trial. (sadiq mahmud khurram