page page of (prov. govt. nafeesa kiran in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan, gilgit chief (against the .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, gilgit in writ petition no. govt. of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gilgit baltistan secretary education gilgit -baltistan, gilgit director colleges, gilgit -baltistan, department of education, gilgit deputy director department of education gilgit principal fatima jinnah degree college gilgit petitioner miss nafeesa kiran muhammad ilyas muhallah na garal tehsil district gilgit. respondent present: for the petitioners: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: -through this judgment, we propose to decide the above civil leave to appeal no. directed against the .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in writ petition no. whereby the writ petition filed by the present respondent was accepted and th page page of (prov. govt. nafeesa kiran petitioner were directed to issue regularization order of the respondent as a grade employee w.e.f .. alongwith all back benefits. necessary facts giving rise to the lis in hand are that the respondent in above cpla was initially appointed as lab attendant on a fixed pay rs. per month in degree college for women gilgit (now fatima jinnah women degree college gilgit) vide office order no.de -() dated 3rd september the respondent claimed that after appointment, she discharged her duties in the said college without any break. when the petitioner no. advertised some posts of grade employees, the respondent approached the petitioner for regularization of her services on the ground of her being in contingent service in the department for many years in the same manner as her counterparts were treated for regularization against vacant posts of bps- without any advertisement. the petitioners, instead of considering the request of the respondent, advertised the posts bps- on .. and invited application from fresh candidates. when her request was not entertained, she filed a writ petition before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, for issuing directives to the departmental authorities for regularization of her services, which was accepted. being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the directives so the learned chief court, the petitioner have now assailed the judgment before this court by way of the above civil leave to appeal. the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan argued that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court failed to apply its judicious mind to the legal position that as per law, page page of (prov. govt. nafeesa kiran every appointment to new posts is required to be made through proper procedure method prescribed under the law rules i.e. advertising the posts, conducting test interview and convening a departmental selection committee meeting dsc) followed by appointments orders in favour of the successful candidates. he next argued that the respondent could not claim regularization on the ground that the posts of bps-1s employees are required to be filled up by the candidates from within concerned district i.e. gilgit alone and was not meant for other districts. he maintained that after getting married to a person from district hunza, she was no more a resident of gilgit, however, with a view to secure appointment against the post of bps- from district gilgit, she fraudulently submitted her id card and domicile made with the names of her parents who are residents of district gilgit. the learned advocate general went on to argue that the contingent employment does not give a legal right to any contingent employee to claim regularization against the vacant posts. we have considered the arguments advanced by the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan. we have also gone through the record as well as the impugned judgment the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court minutely. we are of the considered view that there are no hard and fast rules governing appointments to the class -iv posts. we are fortified by a government policy mechani sm based on a very lenient consideration which govern ed conditions for recruitment to the class -iv posts. for sake of brevity, the said policy is reproduced herein below: page page of (prov. govt. nafeesa kiran government of gilgit -baltistan gilgit -baltistan secretariat (services, general administration and cabinet department) no. so(s) -i-() 16th january, office memorandum subject: mechanism to ensure merit based recruitments in various departments of government of gilgit -baltistan in supersession of this department m.m of even number dated 11th january, on the subject cited above: (i) .. (ii). for appointments to bs to bs posts there shall be no screening test, whereas candidates shall only have to qualify particular skill test, if req uired for the said post, in accordance with the establishment division, islamabad om no. f. sp, dated 3rd march, titled mechanism to ensure merit based recruitments in the ministries divisions subordinate offices autonomous semi -autonomo us bodies corporations companies authorities the contentions of the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan regarding the fact that the respondent was not a resident of gilgit to claim appointment against the post meant only for the residents of gilgit, it is clarified that she was appointed to the said post on contingent basis prior to her marriage with a resident of hunza, even otherwise, after her marriage with the person concerned, it is her choice to retain the domicile issued fr om district gilgit. reliance in this page page of (prov. govt. nafeesa kiran regard can be placed on a case reported titled mehmood ul hassan khan dow university of health sciences pld karachi wherein it has been held that (iii) rules of pakistan citizenship rules only contempl ates cancellation of domicile certificate if it has been obtained through misrepresentation and a person is entitled to retain his certificate of domicile issued by one district magistrate even if he chooses to permanently settle down in another district in this view of the legal position, the contention of the learned advocate general is not tenable. with regard to contentions of the learned advocate general, gb that no contingent paid staff can claim regularization against a permanent post, it can be said that this contention is also not sustainable on the ground government of gilgit -baltistan has been regularizing contingent paid staff from time to time, thus it would be a case of injustice and unfair play to remove respondent from her service. with a view to fortify our observations, we would like to borrow support from a judgment reported as titled muhammad akhtar shirani others punjab text book board and others reported as scmr the relevant para is reproduced below for ready reference: it may be observed that for such reason beneficiary cannot be blamed alone because primarily the authority who had actually misexercised his powers, for the reasons known to it, it is bound to be held responsible for the same, instead of penalizing the petty employees like chowkidar, naib qasid, junior clerks etc. who have to earn livelihood to support their families and if after having served for a long period they are removed from service discriminatory, such action would not page page of (prov. govt. nafeesa kiran promote the cause of action and it would give rise to a number of problems to them. in sequel to above factual and legal position, we are of the considered vie that the impugned judgment the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is based on sound reasons, therefore, the same does not warrant for interference from this court. consequently, leave in the above civil leave to appeal is refused. the .. so the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, gilgit in writ petition no. is maintained. the petitioner are directed to comply ith the said judgment and submit compliance report to the registrar of this court. the above were the reasons for our short .. which is reproduced as under: the learned advocate general, gb has been heard at some length. for the reasons to be recorded later on, the instant cpla under objection no. alongwith the civil misc. application no. is dismissed chief (yes no