page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. misc. no. in cpla. no. abdul rasheed son of haji akber boto kote chilas, forest division forest department at chilas, district diamer. petitioner. provincial government of gilgit -baltistan through chief minister gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. chief secretary, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. secretar forest, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. secretary finance, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. conservator of forest gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. divisional forest officer chilas district diamer. respondents. leave to he impugned judgment .. division bench gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby they have dismissed the review petition no. in writ petition no. filed by petitioner without any cogent reasons and against law and facts. present: -on-record for the petitioner. the advocate general on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been arisen out of the impugned judgment .. the learned division bench gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby dismissed the review petition no. in writ petition no. feeling aggrieved and diss atisfied with the page impugned judgment order the learned chief court gilgit baltistan, the petitioner filed the instant leave to appeal before this court. the learned counsel for petitioner submits that due to an administrative order the learned registrar of chief court in which the case of petitioner was sent to the learned service tribunal gilgit -baltistan for disposal in accordance with law. since the matter pertains to contract services, and the case does not come with in the purview of the learned service tribunal, which through an administrative order returned back eighty five () cases including the case of petitioner to the learned chief court with the request to dispose off the said case in accordance with law. on .. the matter was taken up by the learned division bench of chief court who was pleased to dismiss the case of petitioner being time barred. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the time consumed due to administrative orders passed the learned registrar of chief court as well as the learned service tribunal through registrar and it cannot be counted against the petitioner. he further submits that the impugned order the learned chief court was not tenable and liable to set aside. the learned advocate general frankly conceded that the learned chief court should have to hear the case and decide it on merits in accordance with law. he, however, lukewarmly supported the contensions raised by the learned counsel for the petit ioner. page in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. the case is remanded back to the learned chief court for its de -novo considerations by hearing afresh and decide the same in its own merit expeditio usly within two months. the petition is disposed off in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?