page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. abdul jabbar others petitioners. subhan mir others respondents. present: latif shah advocate and on-record for the petitioner s. shakoor khan advocate and -on- record for respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed against the impugned .. in review petition no. in writ petition no. whereby the said review petition was allowed by setting aside the .. a division bench of the learned chief court and directed its own office for impleading some other pers ons as respondents, hen ce, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal. the notices were issued to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent no. to advertised posts of male elementary school teacher (est) page bps- for zian hard area district astore through daily newspaper dated .. inviting the applications from interesting persons. the petitioner submitted their application agains the said advertised posts and qualified the written test conducted by national testing system (nts). the respondent no. to had directed the petitioner to submit the ir documents and accordingly the petitioner submitted the attested photocopies of requisite documents. later on, the respondent no. to conducted the interview from the candidates of uc qamri and hard area zian separately. in the meantime, it come in the knowledge of the petitioner that the respondent no. to has displayed a list in which the hard area of zian has not been mentioned. subsequently, the zian hard area was merged with whole area of uc qamri. the petitioner being aggrieved filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was allowed vide ... later on, some other stranger persons (respondent no. to filed review petition no. before the learned chief court. upon hearing, the learned chief court converted the said writ petition into an appli cation under section () cpc and allowed the same by setting aside the .. in writ petition no. filed by the petitioners. the learned counsel for the petitioner submit that the petitioner are entitled for appointment agai nst the posts of est bps- zian hard area being fulfillment of criteria given in the advertisement dated ... they also submit that the page respondent no. to malafidely merged the zian hard area into uc qamri and the only candidates belonging to zian hard area can deliver the services to the students very much better than the candidates of other area. per learned counsels, the respondent deviated their own issued published advertisement and had issued a list of candidates belonging to qamri minimerg area, kalish, gratnala and sheikh pura including the names of the petitioner which was is against the law, natural they add that the review petition filed by eight () other person who were strangers have no locus standi to file the same. they reiterate that the petitioner in the same review petition were ordered to be impleaded as respondents. consequently, after impleading the same strangers in review petition, the same was allowed vide impugned ... they further subm it that the strangers can not file the review petition and or otherwise there must be grounds for a review petition as the scope of the review is limited only to the petitioner who initially filed a petition. in support of their contentions, they relied u pon a case law reported as clc, they submit that the learned chief court fell in error while converting the writ petition into an application under section () cpc and the same is not tenable in law. they pray that the impugned the learned chief court may graciously be set aside by maintain the .. passed in writ petition no. by the learned chief court. page conversely, the learned counsels appearing on be half of the respondent support the impugned order the learned chief court. they contend that the respondent no. to are the residents of the same hard area i.e. union council minimerg. they also contend that the respondent are necessary party to writ petition no. and deserved to be impleaded. per learned counsels, the learned chief court has rightly converted the writ petition into review petition under section () cpc and the same is well reasoned and well founded. they pray that the impugned .. may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned order the earned chief court and also gone through the case law cited by the learned counsels for the petitioners. in our considered view, the impugned .. the learned chief court is not well reasoned and well founded being passed contra ry to the law and facts of the case. the case law cited by the learned counsels for the petitioner is applicable. in view of the above discussions, we allow this appeal. consequently, the impugned .. passed in review petition no. by the learned chief court is set aside and the .. in writ petition no. the division bench of the learned chief court is maintained. page the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.