page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil misc. no. in cpla no. abdul bari petitioner. government of gb others respondents. present: -ul-hassan advocate for the petitioners. date of hearing: .. order. this leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned .. in civil misc. no. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil misc filed by the respondent no. was allowe by directing the respondent to release the monthly salary of him with arrears. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the respondent had advertised few posts of grade -i under education department gilgit -baltistan. he also submits that the petitioner had applied for one of the posts. consequently he appeared in the test interview and qualified as well. per learned counsel the petitioner was kept in the waiting list who has to be appointed subject to availability of post. he further submits that during the waiting period one post has fallen vacant on account of the retirem ent of its incumbent. the official respondent appointed one page israr against the said post instead of appointing the petitioner which is against the rules of service. he submits that the petitioner was constrained to file writ petition no. by challen ging the said impugned office .. in the learned chief court which is pending for final adjudication. the learned chief court, however, on .. suspended the said impugned order issued by the official respondent and the case was a djourned. he submits that the respondent no. also filed civil misc no. in writ petition no. before the learned chief court for release of his salary. per learned counsel the case was placed before the vacation ... all the respondent appeared but the petitioner could not appear before the learned chief court on .. due to non -serving of notice to him. he submits that on the same date in absence of the petitioner the salary of the respondent no. was released by the learned chief court which is not sustainable. he prays that the impugned .. the learned chief court may graciously be set aside to meet the ends of justice. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned chief court. admittedly, the writ petition is pending adjudication in the learned chief court and the impugned order is an interim order. in our page considered view no interference is warranted into it by this court. consequently, the leave to appeal is refused. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge.