page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at skardu registry. chief judge. judge. civil appeal. no in cpla. no. abdul karim an other petitioners. mst. zehra daughter of muhammad ali others. respondent s. present: date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: .. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court whereby the said civil revision file by the petitioner was dismissed directing the collector district ghanche for partition of the property of deceased hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case was finally heard on ... consequently, the appeal was dismissed by maintaining the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court and the .. in cfa. no. page the learned district .. in civil suit no. the learned civil briefly facts of the case are that on .. the plaintif petitioner filed civil suit no. for declaration and possession etc. against the respondent to the effect that they are the owners of the land under khiwat no. khasra no. measuring marla, under khasra no. measuring marla under khasra no. measuring marla alongwith a constructed house, two piece of land situated at mouza kharko tapari on the basis of mutation no. attested on ... according to the averment of the petitioner plaintiff the suit property is in the possession of respondent no. without any legal authority. the petitioner plaintiff prayed for perpetual injunction restraining the respondent defendant from constructing alienating the suit land. the parties are inter se relatives which i an admitted fact. .e. bahadur. after the dead of muhammad ali, who had sons namely muhammad ibrahim. he ha also sisters i.e. mst. zehra (respondent no. mst. gulnar. both the sister withdrew from any claim in the legacy of their father and gave their due share to the petitioners. similarly the mother of the parties also gave her share to the petition ers plaintiffs. the disputed land is consisting of page marla with a constructed house thereon. as per the pleadings the entire property of out of which marla suit land is not full share of mst. zehra. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner are the owners of the suit property being the donee as their mother and sisters gifted the said property in their name and the mutation was also prepared duly attes ted by the concerned authorities. he also submits that the respondent in para no. of their written statement have admitted the factum of gift and the pw- who is the mother of the petitioner plaintiff has deposed statement in favour of the petitioner which is also an a dmission on the part of the respondents. he further submits that the learned trial court has rightly appreciated the gift vide its ... he also submits that th respondent could not produce any evidence regarding the sale deed wherea the temporary possession of house has been proved through the statement of pw fatima. he finally submits that the learned first appellate court and the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court fell in error in appreciating the credible evidence produced by he petitioners, therefore, the impugned .. passed in civil revision no. by the learned gilgit baltistan chief court as well as the .. in cfa. no. the learned district page on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. he contends that the petitioner miserably failed to prove the gift deed and they could not produce any iota of evidence in support of their version. he also contends that the gift deed cannot be proved mere on the basis of oral evidence as per law. he finally contends that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the learned first appellate court have rightly declared the respondent entitled for their due shari share as per injunction of islam. he prays that the impugned .. the learned gilgit baltistan chief court as well as the .. the learned district we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned judgment date .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the concurrent findings of the courts below. the contentions of the petitioner plaintiff are that the suit land was gifted to them by their sisters a nd mother while they could not produced any evidence of gift deed in support of their contentions. admittedly the respondent defendant are the legal heirs of the elder son of ashoor, therefore, they are entitled to their shari share in the suit property as well as in the rest of the property of page their brother father. furthermore, he learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned order the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. in our considered view no interference is warranted into it. in view of the above discussions, we dismissed this appeal vide our short ... consequent thereto, the impugned .. in civil revision no. pa ssed by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the .. in civil first appeal no. the learned district .. in civil suit no. the learned civil these were the reasons of our short ... the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?