page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief administrative appeal no. in smc no. asad ullah khan advocate and others. petitioners. the registrar supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at gilgit. respondent. present: malik shafqat wali senior advocate president supreme appellate court bar association alongwith date of hearing: order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... the aforementioned administrative appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in smc no. the chief whereby the names of the then vice chairman gilgit -baltistan bar council, the then president, supreme appellate court bar association and the then president, chief court bar association, on their conduct of unbecoming of advocates, were removed from the roll of advocates of this court whereas the licenses of gilgit -baltistan bar council and former president, supreme appellate court bar association were suspended for a period of five () years by debarring them to practice law in this court for the said period. whereas was warned to be careful in future. consequent thereto, the office of this court vide its notification no. sac -, removed the names of asadullah khan advocate from the roll of advocates likewise, the licenses of muhammad iqbal advocate were suspended for five () yeas by debarring them to appear in this court with effect from .. through a separate notification no. sac- the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this administrative appeal which was heard today. malik shafqat wali senior advocate president supreme appellate court bar association and they stated that non appearance of the petitioner former bar leaders) was neither page deliberate nor intentional but it was in good faith by showing unity and solidarity with gilgit -baltistan legal fraternity against the steps taken by the federal government for non -appointments of judges of chief court and of this court. the action taken by the petitioner was totally under the moral pressure of the lawyers in large number of subordinate courts who were not aware of the supreme appellate court rules, they pray that this appeal may graciously be allowed and the impugned .. passed in smc no. be set aside. the subsequent notifications no. sac issued by the office of this court may also be withdrawn. i have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner (both present bar leaders), perused the material on record and gone though the impugned order and subsequent notifications issued by the office of this court. the learned counsel at the very outset did not argue this case on its own merit and placed the petitioner at the mercy of this court. the request of the bar leaders appearing for the petitioner is accept ed. consequent thereto, this administrative appeal is allowed. the impugned .. in smc no. on administrativ side unde order iv rule of the supreme appellate court rules, is set aside. both the subsequent notification nos:- sac-, issued thereto by the office of this court are hereby ordered to be withdrawn. the petitioners, page however, are warned to be careful in future. the licenses of the petitioner are restored accordingly. this administrative appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge.