page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. administrative appeal representation no. representation appeal under the civil servants (appeal) rules read with the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan employees, service (amended) rules against the illegal, void ab initio termination 2nd january, wherein the services of the appellant petioner were terminated arbitrarily and without assigning any cause, which is against the principal of natural justice. present: muhammad ibrahim appellant present in person. date of hearing: --. order dr. rana muhammad shamim,, cj the appellant is present before us today in person and states that he was initially appointed as assistant registrar judicial bps on adhoc basis vide office order no. sac.e. dated ... later on his services have been regularized vide office order no. sac. e- dated 24th april after advertising the posts in the newspaper and conducting proper test interview. he further submits that he has been upgraded along with others officers to the extent of the up -gradation of the incumbents only vide noti fication no. sac.e (admin -) dated ... that there were no terms and conditions laid down in the last order of his up -gradation for probation period. he also submits that during the vacations of this court his termination order was issued on .. without issuance of show cause notice and explanation etc. which is according to him unlawful, void and has been issued without any lawful authority being against the principles of natural justice. that about termination of his services, he was informed telephonically and as such he was condemned unheard. he further states that page comments para -wise reply submitted by the learned registrar on the directions of this court dated .., in which no allegation was leveled against him and no reason was given for termination of his services. he read out the .., which is reproduced as under: office order: as recommended by the departmental promotion selection committee and approved by the baltistan, already working as assistant registrar, on adhoc basis is appointed as assistant registrar judicial (bps -) on regular basis, with immediate effect. he will be on probation for a period of one year under the prov ision of existing rules. if no order is issued on expiry of first probation period if the services of incumbent are found not satisfactory, the probation period shall be extended for further period as prescribed in the relevant rules he contended that in the above office order, it was mentioned that he would be on probation for a period of one year and in case of not satisfactory services his probation period will be extended for further a period of one year as prescribed in the relevant rules. since, he was confirmed after completion of one year probation, consequently, he was up -graded in bps on his satisfactory services and good performance. he also referred the gblr publication dated .., which is reproduced as under: the supreme appel late court gilgit -baltistan is also regularly publishing gilgit -baltistan law reports (gblr) containing important decisions of the court in the supervision of assistant registrar, in -charge printing, publication and human rights wing and he has rendered va luable contributions in compilation and publication of this book and gblr. he further submits that his services were recognized by the then chief he further submits that during page the vacation it was shocking for him to know that his services were terminated, which is against the principles of natural on the other hand, the comments para -wise reply submitted on behalf of the lear ned registrar of this court on the direction of this court vide .., which are reproduced as below: subject: parawise reply on behalf of registrar, supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan in administrative appeal submitted by .assistant registrar, supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan. as per direction of the -baltistan, in court notice dated, --, the parawise reply on behalf of the undersigned is as under: para to is admitted being factual position, whereas the reply on para to along with grounds of appeal is as under: vide -- as assistant registrar, on adhoc basis for a period of six months. thereafter, vide --; his adhoc appointment period was extended for a further period of six months w.e.f --. vide office 24th april, he was appointed on regular basis as assistant regis trar and was placed on probation period of one year, with the condition that if during first year of probation period of one year, with the condition that if during first year of probation his service had not been found satisfactory, the same shall continu for another year. on expiry of one year of his employment on probation no order regarding termination of his probation period was passed, therefore, his probation period was deemed to have been extended for further one year as per terms of his appointme nt. the present appeal can be considered in the light of the following rules supported with the decisions of the superior courts: rule of supreme appellate court, service structure (modified re -enacted) rules, provided as under: terms and condition of service. () subject to any special provisions contained in these, rules, the rules and orders for the time being in force and applicable to civil servants of corresponding grade scale of the federal government shall regulate the terms and con ditions of service of officers and servants of the supreme appellate court northern areas (now gilgit -baltistan). section () () and () of civil servant (appointment, promotion and transfer), rules provides as under: page probation () () the period of probation may be curtailed for good and sufficient reasons, to be recorded, or, if considered necessary, it may be extended for a period not exceeding one year as may be specified at the time of appointment. () on successful complet ion of probation period, the appointing authority shall, by specific order, terminate the probation. () if no order is issued under sub -rule (), on the expiry of the first year of probation period, the period of probation shall be deemed to have bee extended under sub -rule (). section of civil servants act, provides as under: termination of service: () the services of a civil servant may be terminated without notice: (i) during the initial or extended period of his probation. rule of supreme appellate court service structure (modified reenacted rules, provided as under: opportunity of showing cause. when an action is proposed to be taken against an officer or servant of the court under rule he shall be info rmed in writing of the action proposed to be taken in regard to him and the grounds of the action and he shall be given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action: provided that no such opportunity shall be given when the chief as the case may be, is satisfied that in the circumstances of the case, it is not expedient in the public interest to give such opportunity. the above provisions clearly indicate that in this view of the matter it is for the competent authority to decide whether an employee is fit to be retained in service or not being an a dministrative matter and there seem no illegality in such exercise of power, by the competent authority. in this connection the superior courts in a number of judgments has decided as under: in case titled syed tahir hussain shirazi the governor the punjab and others scmr it was held as under: the services of additional district and sessions judge, r.y.khan, are terminated with immediate effect during the probation period. no vested rights of the petiti oner are involved and his service having been competently terminated, leave no scope for going deeper into the recording of remarks. leave refused page in this case of muhammad siddique javed chaudhry and others (pld sc it was held as under: petitioner could make out no case for successful challenging order of termination of service while on probation. order of termination of service contained no stigma and required no show -cause procedure, as such: as the case titled muhammad sami ullah hauri secretary, population welfare division, islamabad and others () scmr it was held as under: civil servant was no probation and during probation competent authority could dispense with his services. no illegality thus was committed by the authority. no point of law was involved in petition. leave to appeal was refused. in view of what has been discussed in the preceding paragraphs, -- with probation for a period of one ear further extendable to another year. on completion of initial period of probation, no order regarding termination of his probation was passed, therefore, the period of probation would be deemed to have been extended to another year in term of section () of civil servants (appointment promotion and transfer), rules the probation period of --, but before completion of his probation period, his services were terminated on --, on account of services on probation without any notice under section of civil servants act, in view of the above discussion it is evident from the record that the services of (modified re -enacted) rules, or under section of civil servant act, likewise, as per requirement of rule () of supreme appellate court service structure (modified re -enacted) rules, the subject appeal is not maintainable. however, the relevant rule () of supreme appellate court is reproduced as under: appeal. i wher any penalty is imposed by the registrar, an appeal shall lie from his order to the chief judge, and where any penalty is imposed by the chief judge, otherwise than on appeal from an order of the registrar, an appeal shall lie from his order to the divisi on bench of the supreme appellate court northern areas. a careful perusal of the aforesaid rule reveals that a remedy of appeal is available to an aggrieved employee of the supreme appellate court, against any penalty imposed by the chief baltistan, in the division bench of supreme appellate court, whereas in this case under consideration no penalty i.e. major or minor penalty which is reproduced as under: page (a) minor penalties: (i) censure; (ii) withholding for a specific period, promotion or increment otherwise than for unfitness; (iii) stoppage, for a specific period, at an efficiency bar in the time -scale, otherwise than for unfitness to cross such bar; (iv) recovery from pay of the whole or any part of any pecuniary loss caused to government by negligence or breach of orders; (b) major penalties: reduction to a lower post or time -scale, or to a lower stage in a time -scale; compulsory retirement; removal from service; and dismissal from service. () removal from service does not but dismissal from service does disqualify from future employment. () in this rule, removal or dismissal from service does not include the discharge of a person. (a) appointment on probation, during or in the expiry of the period probation; or (b) appointed otherwise than under a contract, to hold a temporary appointment, on the expiration of the period of appointment; or (c) engaged under a contract, in accordance with the terms of the contract. it is clear form perusal of the aforesaid rules that termination from service has not been shown as major or minor penalty in the supreme appellate court service structure (modified re -enacted) rules, thus in view of the legal position supported with numbers of decisions of the sup erior courts re with relevant rules of the supreme appellate court service structure (modified re -enacted) rules, showing therein the remedy of appeal available to an appellant against the decision of chief judge, supreme appellate court, the appell ant has no case and at the present appeal is not maintainable as no penalty has been imposed against appellant by the then chief judge, supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan. likewise, the documents produced and attached by the appellant in support of is appeal have been examined which are not favorable in the case of appellant. we have heard the appellant and perused the record as well as comments para -wise reply of the registrar of this court. we are in agreement with the para -wise reply of the re gistrar of this court and hold that the services of the present appellant were competently and lawfully terminated. neither rule of supreme appellate court service page structure (modified re -enacted) rules, nor section of civil servant act, does require any show cause notice prior to the termination of his service during probation period, hence, the instant administrative appeal no. is not maintainable. the appeal is accordingly dismissed being not maintainable. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?