page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cpla no. ahliyan samigal bala through representatives petitioners. ahliyan dodishal through representatives respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the respondent plaintiff filed civil suit no. alongwith an application under order rule cpc for temporary injunction in the court of learned civil barren, forest, pastures and all profits of the same properties. upon hearing, the learned trial court dismissed the said application for temporary injuncti on vide .. which was upheld by the learned district the petitioner being aggrieved preferred civi revision no. in the learned chief court. during the hearing of the said revision petition both the respective parties alongwith their counsels unanimously agreed to maintain the status quo of the suit land as prevailed at the time of filing civil suit, hence, the revision petition was disposed off accordingly. the petitioner feeling aggrieved filed civil review petition no. which upon page hearing was dismissed vide impugned .., hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the .. the learned chief court is an ex -parte order as the petitioner were not present on the same date, therefore, the same is not sustainable. per learned counsel, the etitioners filed civil review for setting aside the said order which was also dismissed vide impugned judgment ... we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment .. the learned chief court. admittedly, the impugned judgment has been passed with the consent of the re spective parties, therefore, no indulgence is warranted into it by this court. the learned counsel for the petitioner also could not point out any infirmity in the said impugned judgment. in view of the above discussions, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. the leave is accordingly refused. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge.