page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cpla. no. ajab khan petitioner. faizullah another respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner instituted a civil suit no. be fore the learned civil .. contending therein that he is entitled for damages on account of malicious prosecution amounting to rs. ,, (rupees one million only). he further disclosed in the petition that respondent having their hands in gloves with police got a criminal case registered against the petitioner vide fir no. dated .. under section of the offence of zina (enforcement of hudood) ordinance read with section ppc and at the inst ance of bahadur wali. it is alleged therein that the petitioner while armed with weapon attempted to abduct the daughter of respondent no. mst. hoor bibi and extended threat for dire consequences. he also submits that during the investigation an other ir no. for an offence under section arm ordinance was also registered against the petitioner. the investigation of both the cases was page carried out by the police officer. he further submits that the petitioner was sent to judicial lock up and face trial. consequently, he was acquitted from all charges. whereafter he filed civil suit for recovery of damages from the respondent and could not succeeded. he submits that the petitioner being aggrieved filed cfa. no. before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court which upon hearing was aslo dismissed vide impugned .., hence, this leave to appeal. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the record of the case file an gone through the judgments of two courts below. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality, infirmity and misappreciating of evidence on record in the concurrence findings of the courts below, in our considered view no inte rference is warranted into it. in view of the above discussions, the leave to appeal is refused. the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgment of the learned trial court are maintained. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not? page