page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, registry branch skardu civil appeal no. in cpla no. akhun mukhtar ali petitioner. provincial govt others respondents. present: the advocate general for respondents. ... at the very outset the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the learned trial court althoug framed twelve () issues yet the same were not resolved settled on the basis of the evidence produced by both the parties. as per the learned counsel admittedly the suit land was is the ownership of the respondent i.e. provincial government. the peti tioner on the basis of the possession of the said land filed suit for declaration and permanent injunctions. the learned trial court observed and held in the .. passed in civil suit no. that the land in question will remain i the possession of the petitioner unless the same has not been taken by the provincial government. the plaintiff were directed not to make any further improvement in the said suit land. in case any improvement is made, the plaintiff will not be entitle for any compensation. on such observation the case of the petitioner was disposed off. subsequently the learned page first appellate court in appeal framed and settled issues. after hearing the counsels for the respective parties, the appeal was dismiss ed vide ... the protection of the possession given by the learned trial court to the petitioner was set aside, however, the district collector was directed to vacate the suit property from the illegal occupancy of the petitioner by exercising his powers under the natore rules. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the order of the learned first appellate court filed civil revision no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was also dismissed vide im pugned .. by holding that the petitioner hopelessly failed to convince that the petitioner without title can claim to file a civil suit for declaration and permanent injunction. be it may, we without touching the merits of the cas e, observe and hold that it was primary duty of the learned trial court to resolve settle the issues on the basis of the evidence and materials on record which the learned trial court had failed to perform his legal duty. we, therefore, in the interest justice, remand the case back to the learned trial court to resolve settle the issues framed on the basis of the record and after hearing the case afresh expeditiously decide in its own merits within a period of three () months without being influenced by any of the observation(s) earlier made by its own court, first appellate court, revisional court and or by this court. the civil suit no. be treated as pending adjudication. consequent thereto, the impugned page .. passed in civi revision no. by learned chief court as well as the .. in cfa no. (adj), (dj) learned district .. in civil suit no. the learned civil the parties are, however, have to maintain the status quo till the cognizance is taken by the learned trial court. the case is remanded back to the learned trial court in above terms. chief judge. judge.