page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at registry branch skardu rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. -ud-din, judge. civil appeal no. in civil leave to appeal no. all residents of fultux, tehsil gultari district skardu through representatives. mohammad qasim musa. muhammad ishaq jaffar residents of muhallah fultux, tehsil gultari pre sently residing at moza olding ehsil district skardu. petitioner appellant defendant muhammad a li abuzar. mohammad ali ali, residents of muhallah shakh thang moza koshmara tehsil district skardu. respondent plaintiff civil leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan empowerment self governance order read with order xiii of gilgit -baltistan supreme appellate court rules against the judgment the learned single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan registry at skardu, whereby the learned chief court has upheld the judgment order of trial court civil for setting aside the same to meet ends of justice. present: senior advocate alongwith advocate on record on behalf of the petitioners. page advocate for the respondent s. date of hearing: --. judgment raja jalal -ud-din, j..... the plaintiff respondent filed a civil suit for recovery of rupees four lac fifty three thousand and three hundred seventy seven only (rs. ,, -) payable to them on the basis of an agreement between the par ties through arbitrators dated in the trial court. the petitioner defendant file an application under order rule c.p.c with the plea that section of the arbitration act bars the enforcing of an arbitration agreement through a civil suit. the miscellaneous appl ication was turned down by the rial court. the chief ourt gilgit -baltistan also concur red with the findings of the rial court and dismissed the revision petition preferred. the trial court was ordered to proceed with the trial. the petitioner basically pleads that the civil suit preferred is based on an agreement reached between the parties through an arbitration, hence it being an award cannot be challenged through a civil suit, hence liable to be rejected, reliance is placed on scmr, on the other hand counsel for the plaintiff is of the view that the suit itself is not based on the award of any court but it is an agreement reached between the parties through arbitrators and in the strict sense it cannot termed as defined under section of the arbitration act we have heard the partie and conclude as under, an award in the strict sense under arbitration act has to go through legal formalities such as, the reference of a subject matter through arbitration on consent of the parties. the award passed has to go through the objections filed by the parties and eventually can be made rule of the court. in the instant case it is a matter which has been settled outside the court with the consent of the parties. in the present case the arbitrators appointed by the consent of both the parties and documents signed cannot be enforced by termed page as an award which bars a civil suit as defined in section of arbitration act. it is simply a piece of evidence in a civil suit. we therefore are of the considered view that the civil suit is not barred under the arbitration act and the miscellaneous application of the respondent under order rule c.p.c has rightly been dism issed by the chief court gilgit -baltistan. the petition being meritless is dismissed and the trial court to proceed where it has left off. announced: --. chief