page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, at gilgit cr. original petition no. chiefjudge -ud-din, judge. judge. altaf hussain syed tahir ali shah syed jaffar shah muhammad yaqoob -baltistan petitioner syed mutahir ali shah, accountant general gb. jangi bahadur deputy accountant general gb. respondent petition under article of gilgit -baltistan empowerment and self governance order read with article of constitution of islamic republic of pakistan and under section of contempt of court ordinance for init iation of proceedings for committing contempt of this august court against the respondents, for issuing the illegal notification date -- regarding the stoppage of monthly pension and other privileges of the petitioner despite the categorical decisi on given by this apex court in this regard in the case smc. dated --. the judgment of this honorable court by issuing the illegal notification order erroneously quoting the judgment of supreme court of pakistan in constitutional petition no. present: advocate general gilgit -baltistan. advocate, counsel for the petitioners. in person. in person. date of hearing: --. judgment rana muhammad arshad khan, cj: the petitioner herein were continuously drawing their pension alongwith page pensionary benefits and other perks and privileges since their retirement. the accountant gilgit -baltistan vide notification no. pen court -cases dated --, marked a stopped monthly pension and other privileges of the -baltistan. the petitioner moved a contempt application against the respondent with the prayer that they be proceed ed against, under relevant provision of law of contempt of court. the court vide -- directed the office to issue notices to the respondent for their personal appearance before the court on the next date of hearing and at the same time the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan, was also directed to be present in court for the assistance of the court. the respondent no. namely jangi bahadur, deputy accountant general, gilgit -baltistan, appeared before the court in person and submit ted his reply marked stating therein that the notification dated -- has been withdrawn and he has also tendered unconditional written apology before the court. the respondent no. did not appear on the date of hearing i.e. --, due to his transfer and posting from gilgit to islamabad. the court had shown its displeasure for his non appearance and issued bailable warrant for his personal appearance before the court. the bailable warrant was accordingly issued, executed and in response th ereof, the respondent no. appeared in court in person and also submitted his repl marked elaborating page therein that the notification no. pen court -cases dated --, by virtue of which the pension and other privileges of the honorable ju dges of the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan have been withdrawn, he also tendered his unconditional written apology before the court. today i.e. --, the respondent no. personally appeared in court and made their explanation to the effect that payment of pension and other privileges were stopped on the directions of the high ups of their department, but the notification in question has now been withdrawn, but the notification in question has now been withdrawn vide order no. pen cour t-cases dated -- marked the said notification for the stoppage of the pension and other privileges of the the respondent present in court have shown remorse and repentance of their action. they, during the proceeding of the case, have verbally stated that since the notification was issued inadvertently and they put themselves at the mercy of the court while ten dering unqualified apology and also state that they will remain careful in future. in this view of the matter the learned counsel for the petitioner does not press the contempt application any more. the court in view of the statement made by the learned counsel for the petitioner and the compunction shown by the page respondent in the court, accepts the apology tendered by them and the petition in hand is disposed of accordingly. chief