page in the supreme appellate cou rt gilgit -baltistan c.p.l.a. no. chief tehsil punial distric ghizar petitioner mst. khosh joor gairat shah gairat shah manwar shah buranja tehsil punial district ghizar respondent leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order read with supreme appellate court rules against the impugned -- chief court gilgit -baltistan in c. misc. no. (transfer petition) whereby the learned chief court dismissed the petition. present: for the petitioner date of hearing: -- order. this petition has been directed against the -- whereby the application field by the petitioner for transfer of civil suit pending in court of civil has been dismissed. the sole ground urged in the application for transfer of case was that mst. khush joor respondent in the suit using filthy language misbehaved with the petitioner in the open court but the learned civil therefore the peti tioner has lost confidence in the independence of learned trial judge. the additional ground taken by the petitioner before us in support of this petition is that after dismissal of the transfer application by the chief court, learned trial for his absence and this act of the presiding has seriously reflected upon is independence and fair treatment. this is correct that reasonable apprehension in the mind of a litigant about the unfairness or bias of the presiding officer of the court is considered a valid ground for transfer of case, but mere apprehension is not sufficient to doubt the independence of the presiding officer of the court. the misbehavio of a party in the court may render such party liable to be proceeded against for appropriate action in accordance with law but it may not be a good or a valid ground for transfer of case from one court to another court. this is not ordinary practice in civil proceeding to issue bailable or non bailable warrants to secure the attendance of a person unless there is legal compulsion to use the cursive measures for the attendance of a person, however there is nothing on record to show that for what reason no bailable warrants of the petitioner were issued, and further this second ground relates to the period subsequent to the dismissal of transfer application of the petitioner by the chief court, in which no comments can be offered without examination of rec ord. this petition is therefore disposed off with the observation that petitioner may if so advised approach the chief court afresh. disposed off. chief