page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at gilgit cr. misc. no. in cr.p.l.a. no. -ud-din, judge. judge. arif-ud-din son of abd -ur-rauf resident of baseen gilgit. petitioner appellant. the state respondent. offences under section -a, p.p.c and (l) read with section of the anti terrorism act vide f.i.r. no. of police station city gilgit and arms ordinance f.i.r. no. of police station city gilgit. leave to the order --, the atc gilgit vide -- has been maintained, while co -accused namely mehfooz wali, has been acquitted from all the charges. present: malik haq nawaz, advocate on behalf of the petitioner. advocate general on beh alf of the respondent. date of hearing: --. judgment raja jalal -ud-din, -ud-din has preferred an his conviction in this court, and in the meanwhile an application for acquittal on the basis of compromise between the parties had been preferred on 15th august in the light of the same this ourt vide its -- directed the special of anti terrorism court gilgit to look into the matter and give its report regarding the genuineness of patch -up compromise between the parties. page the trial court was also directed to verify if any minor legal heirs interest were guarded or not. in the light of the said order anti terrorism court submitted his report on 30th september the legal heirs of deceased muhammad akbar as well as the statements of the injured persons namely samad khan and haibat ali were recorded. the statement of mst. a yeena widow of muhammad akbar deceased alongwith with her sons namely zahid hussain, khalid hussain, wahid hussain and arif hussain. the power of attorney on behalf of her three daughters namely mst. musrat shaheen, mst. samina batool and mst. zohra akbar was also obtained and placed on file. they have pardon arif -ud-din, mehfooz wali and qari ikram ullah. the joint statement of zahid hussain, khalid hussain, wahid hussain and arif hussain the sons of deceased muhammad akbar placed file. they have also pa rdon the convict appellant arif -ud- din, mehfooz wali and qari ikram ullah in the name of allah all mighty. the statement of the jirga members also recorded, who have made efforts to effect the compromise betw een the parties is also placed file. the etitioner namely arif -ud-din, who ad been convicted by the trial ourt and awarded death sentence had absconded during pendency of this appeal. the same was upheld by the chief court gilgit -baltistan. the convict appellant absconded and yet an absconder. the learned counsel for the petitioner malik haq nawaz was confronted with the issue regarding the acceptance of a compromise by a convict appellant and disposal of the case may be irregular and not warranted in law. the learned counsel for the petitione has turned up with mld, lahore, pg the decision of the divisional bench comprising muhammad nawaz hah peti tioner appellant was convicted under section p.p.c read with section p.p.c and sentenced to imprisonment for life along with a fine of rs. and in case of default to further r. i. for years. he was also ordered to pay rs as compensation to the legal heirs of the deceased under section -a, cr.p.c on two counts, for having caused death of syed nau bahar shah and waryam along with his brother riaz hussain shah(absconder)both muhammad nawaz shah petitioner appellant and absconding accused riaz hussain shah were also convicted under section p.p.c read with section p.p.c and sentenced to years r.i. alongwith a one of rs. each and in case of defaul in payment of fine were ordered to undergo further r.i. for one year for having caused injuries to falak sher and alamdar hussain shah vide judgment order of multan division, multan, dated --. syed noubahar shah left behind the following legal heirs: (i) mst. ghulam jannat, mother, (ii) mst. nadira bukhari, wife, (iii) syed amjad hussain shah, son, (iv) syed alamdar hussain shah, son, (v) hina bukhari, daughter, (vi) mina bukhari, daughter, deceased waryam was survived by the following legal heirs (i) sheran bibi, wife, (ii) zafar abbas, son, (iii) mst. sulekhan, daughter, (iv) sughran bibi, daughter, (v) shameem bibi, daughter, the above mentioned legal heirs of both the dece ased have forgiven muhammad awaz shah petitioner a ppellant and absconding accused riaz hussain hah in the name of allah, and have sworn affidavit to that effect which have been placed on record alongwith identity card. the above mentioned legal heirs of both the deceased are also present in court and have reiterated the correctness and genuineness of heir affidavits which are also verified by their learned counsel. the above mentioned legal heirs of both the decease pray that muhammad nawaz shah and his brother co -accused riaz hussain shah (absconding accused) be acquitted. falak sher and alamdar hussain shah, the two injured witnesses are also present in ourt. they have also sworn affidavits, which have been laced on record. page resultantly, this petition is accepted and muhammad nawaz shah petitioner appellant and riaz hussain shah (absconding accused) are set at liberty unless required in any other case. compromise allowed. the petition was accepted and the absconding accused was set at liberty. it is also informed that the present case is also a part of a series of murders between the parties which has been compromised between two families and cases pending against them have been disposed off on the same pattern and analogy. another co -accused namely mehfooz wali mehboob wali who had been awarded sentence to life imprisonment by the trial court was acquitted in appeal by the chief court vide --. the third abscond ing co -accused namely qari ikram ullah was sentenced to death in -absentia by anti terrorism court gilgit no appeal was preferred by him. the convict appellant has also been sentenced to years rigorous imprisonment. the case against the petitioner under section arms ordinance is perused and we find that the recovery of weapon of offence for which the convicted has been sentenced was initially recovered from another accused namely saeed son of maqsood charge in f.i.r no. police station city gilg it. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan who is present in court rendered his able assistance in the matter to appraise the court and had also been heard. after goi ng through the material placed record and the perusal of statements of jirga embers, the legal heirs of the deceased, injured individuals and perusal of the judgment of we feel that a case of compromise was made out the petitioner arif -ud-din is acquitted as page charged under section -a p.p.c of anti terrorism act vide f.i.r no. police station city gilgit and arms ordinance vide f.i.r no. police station city gilgit. the charge against the convict appellant of abscontion from jail and legal custody shall remain outstanding against him. both the accused namely arif -ud-din and qari ikram ullah are acquitted from the charges if not required in any other case. the case is disposed off accordingly. announced. --.