page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit cr. mise. no. (chief judge) (judge) (judge) arshad wali mir zaman. mansoor faradoon kashrote tehsil district gilgit. petitioner the state respondent charges under section ppc and of the ata and explosive act vide fir no. police station city gilgit leave to the order judgment of chief court dated -- present: malik haq nawaz, advocate for the petitioner advocate general gilgit -baltistan for he state. date of hearing: ... order syed jaffar shah, ... the petitioner have sought leave to orders -- single bench of chief page court gilgit -baltistan in cr. misc. no. whereby declining the concession of bail to the present petitioner in a case registered with police station gilgit city u ppc sec. of atc and sec. of explosive act vide fir no the brief facts leading to the present petition are that on at about pm some unknown assailants attacked the vehicle of the than deputy speaker of northern areas legislative assenbly syed asad zaidi with sophisticated weapons resultantly one shahid hussain sitting in the vehicle died at the spot while on receiving the information the local police registered the case against unknown culprits and the investigation of the case was conducted by a joint inv estigation team headed by dig crime branch in terms of sec. ata, the investigation team arrested the present petitioner alongwith three other co-accused namely mir baz khan mirza khan, amjad faridoon, and shakeel abdul hameed while some ot hers are stated to be absconded and after necessary investigation challaned them u ppc sec. ata. after their arrest the petitioner and other accused applied for grant of bail before the gilgit, who vide order -- granted bail to one co -accused namely amjad and refused to grant bail to the extent of rest of the acc used including the present petitioner. they and other two accused unsuccessfully approached the chief court gilgit -baltistan but the page single we have heard the learned counsel for petitione rs and advocate general for the state. the learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that except a statement recorded u -h ata purported to be a confessional statement and recovery of weapon of offence there is no material on the record to connect the petitioner with the present petitioner are not directly involved in the commission of the crime and they have been made scape goats by the prosecution are innocent and no active role has been attributed to them in the commission of offence. the learn ed advocate general on the other hand vehemently opposed the petition and controerted the above submission. he contended that the petitioner are involved in a heinous crime, and sufficient material is available against them on the record beside their conf essional statement and recovery of crime weapons. having heard the learned counsel for the parties at length and gone through the available record. we have come to the conclusion that the occurrence had taken place in dark night and no witness was shown by the prosecution to have seen the occurrence. no oubt the investigation team has recovered one bore rifle and a rifle on the pointation of petitioner arshad wali but from tentative assessments of the available record the in no way is sufficient to connect the petitioner with the crime especially when it is made after a considerable delay. it is also not the case of prosecution that the petitioner has used the recovered weapons in page commission of the offence. allegation against the petitioner is that they have handled the weapon of offence used in th commission of offence. so far as confessional statement of the petitioner is concerned it is not understandable as to why the investigation team has not adopted a recognized and normal course of producing the petitioner before a judicial magistrate for ecording their confessional statements and what were the reasons to record statement u of ata by superintendent of police who can never be thought to be an independent and impartial person. be that as it may, this confessional statement if believed to be true and correctly recorded even then cannot be made basis for conviction of the petitioner without further corroboration from perusal of available material it transpires that there is no direct to connect the petitioner with the commission of offenc e. as regards the ground of seriousness and heinousness of the offence is concerned, concession of bail cannot be with held merely on the plea of heinousness of the offence when an accused person is otherwise entitled for grand of bail. we observe that th investigation team consisting of senior official has failed to conduct a fair, transparent and untainted investigation. in such cases the investigation team officer should very vigilantly conduct the investigation in a transparent and fair manner in acco rdance with law and avoid to adopt traditional methods of investigation. for what has been discussed above the case against the petitioner calls for further inquiry into their guilt within the page purview of sec. () cr.p.c. this petition is therefore con verted into appeal and allowed. however our above observations ae purely tentative in nature and the trial court shall proceed with the case uninfluenced by this order our short order by virtue of which the petitioner were allowed bail reproduced hereund er is treated as part of this order. for the reasons to be recorded later on, this criminal petition in converted into an appeal and bail is allowed to the appellant in the sum of rs. two lac (, -) each with two sureties in the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial court petition converted in to appeal and allowed. announced -- chief