page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. ashoor khan others petitioner qasim shah others respondent leave to appeal under artilce of gilgit baltistan (empowerment self governance order against the judgment decree dated -- chief court gilgit -baltistan. present: amjad hussain advocate for respondent dated of hearing: --. order dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj ----the leave to appeal is granted by this court on -- and notice were issued to the respondent in order to decide the case on merits. the learned counsel for the petitioner contended that impugned judgment in civil review dated -- the learned single judg e, chief court, gil git-baltistan was incorrect, aseless, and the same is against the facts and record the case and liable to set as ide. he also contends that impugned judgment of learned chief court, gilgit –baltistan is arbitrary and against the principles of natural ence not maintainable. he also submitted that impugned judgment the learned additional district he further submits that the impugned judgment is not maintainable being perverse and misconceived. on the other hand, submitted that no infirmity and illegality was pointed out in the impugned judgment the -baltistan. he has drawn our attention towards the page better copy at para) (b) of para and 7as per above mentioned para the a case filed by the respondent no. against one ro shan ali the year consequently the name of lated roshan ali was deleted rom jama bandi maintained in in respect of khewat no. he further submitted that this was in the knowledge of the petitioner and the petitioner with misrepresentation obtained ex -party judg ment decree in his favour by including khewat no. withou impleading the respondent no. in civil suit no. the application under section () cpc was filed by the respondent no., when the petitioner under umbrella of the said ex -party decree tried to take possession of this land i.e. khewat no. khasra no. to he further contended that the father of the respondent no. purchased the land under khewat no. from one roshan ali safdar ali vide mutation no. dated --, whereas, the land under khasra no. to khewat no. was ancestral land of the father of the petitioner which after his death devoled upon his legal heirs. the learned counsel for the respondent no. furthe contended that the judgment decree acquired by the petitioner through fraud and misrepresen tation is liable to set aside. he contended that the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan after conside ring facts and law has rightly set aside the order in civil first appeal no: dated .. of the first appellate court and order in civil mi sc. dated -- of the learned trial court. consequently, the case was ri ghtly remanded to the learned trial court page with the directions to start the case from the st age where it was stop given up. he concluded his contention with the argument that the petitioner has no case to solicit interference in the impugned judgment of the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan. we have heard the learned counsel for both the parties, and perused the case file and we are in agreement with the contentio ns raised by the lear ned counsel for respondent no. and interference is not warranted in the impugned judgment in civil revision no. dated -- pass ed by the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan. consequently petition i converted into appeal and dismissed with no order to cost. chief