page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in c.p.l.a. no. bakhtawar shah turab kanjukushal tehsil nagar no. district hunza -nagar. petitioner khuda aman khuda yar chili kushal nagar no. and another. respondent present: syed muhammad aga advocate alongwith mir akhlaq hussain advocate and -on-record for the petitioner. date of hearing:- --. date of detail judgment: -.....--. judgment javed iqbal, j......... this leave to appeal has been directed against the concurrent judgments decrees the learned courts below i.e. learned chief court and learned district court gilgit dated -- vide cfa no. and whereby, the learned courts, has dismissed the civil 1st appeal by lear ned district while the learned page civil court nagar has decreed the suit of petitioner dated -, vide civil suit no. as prayed for. concisely the back ground of this litigation as transpiring from plaint is that, the petitioner plaintiff filed a pre-emption suit for possession. according to averments of plaint, the respondent defendant no. has sold the suit land to the respondent no. in consideration of rs. (sixty five thousand) to respondent no., without knowledge and informed to petitioner while, the petitioner was entitled to purchase the suit property being adjacent the residential house near suit property. on the other hand, the respondent no. to contested the suit through their separate written statement and denied all averments of the plaint, and averred that, the suit property was not purchased but has obtained by respon dent no. in exchange of house the petitioner plaintiff also filed re -joinder and denied the all averments of respondent defendants, which he taken in written statement. the learned trial court framed issues in the light of pleadings of the parties. parties adduced their evidence pro and contra and arguments advanced by the counsel of the parties the learned trial court has decreed the suit of the petitioner plaintiff as prayed for with cost. this judgment decree has been challenged by the respondent before learned district court by filing ivil 1st appeal no. before learned district court gilgit dated --. the learned district -- and dismissed the suit of plaintiff. the petitioner appellant aggrieved by the judgment decree learned district ourt filed a civil revision no. before learned chief court on --, page the single bench of chief court has maintained the judgment decree of learned district cou rt vide -, consequently the pre -emption suit of the petitioner plaintiff dismissed holding that, findings arrived at by the district we have heard the arguments of the counsel of the parties at great length. the learned advocate mir akhlaq hussain on behalf of the petitioner, vehemently argued the case that petitioner plaintiff filed a pre -emption suit against the respondent with the ontention that, respondent no. sold the pre -empt property without notice and secretly in consideration of rs. to respondent no. while the petitioner being neighbor with the adjacent of his residential house, he has superior right to purchase the disputed land then the respondents. on the other hand, the learned counsel of respondent that, the suit property was not purchased, rather it was obtained by respondent no. in exchange of house, which handed over to respondent no.. we have minutely examined the record of the case, with the help of arguments by the counsel of both the parties, also perused the judgment of lower courts. the learned counsel of the petitioner argued his case in good manner, and contended that, the petitioner has pref ential right than the respondent no. because the petitioner is neighbor and his residential house is adjacent to respondent house. in proof of the version of plaint, the petitioner produced two pw who only stating about adjacency of suit property and they are silent about price of suit land, that petitioner is ready to pay in case of decree. we also observed that, petitioner himself and pw are mum about price of suit land. the only one page rebuttal evidence has produced by the petiti oner stated that, he heard, that disputed property has purchased in consideration of rs. which is hearsay evidence could not be reliable in above circumstances. moreover, it is evident from available record, that exchange of properties has been af fected between the parties. it is not a case of sale. certain law provided by gilgit -baltistan right of prior-purchase regulation that right of prior purchase could not be exercised only the case of sale. moreover, it is also well principle of law, that, plaintiff has to prove his case independently, plaintiff cannot take the benefit from weakness of the defendant. so, in the above circumstances, we feel that the petitioner has bitterly failed to established an prove his case independently. so we did not find any reason for our interference in the impugned judgment decrees of learned chief court dated -- and district court gilgit. we proceeded to convert this petition into appeal and same was dismissed by our short --. the appeal is dismissed in above terms.