page in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan at gilgit judge. judge. c. appeal no. c.p.l.a. no. raja shahduran ali hamayoon sher qila tehsil punial district ghizer. petitioner plaintiff. habib -ur-rehman khalil -ur-rehman basin tehsil district gilgit. respondent. leave to appeal under article of gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance order) against the judgment -- passede by the chief court gilgit baltistan in civil revision no. present: advocate on behalf of the petitioner. advocate for the respondent. advocate on record. dateed of hearing: --. judgment javed iqbal, petitioner judgment debtor has challenged the --, the single bench of the chief court, gilgit baltistan, in civil revision no. page the brief facts of the case a re that the present pertitioner namely raja shah duran has preferred a civil suit no in the civil court at gilgit on -- for declaration and possession of suit land. the defendatnt respondent after appearing before the trial court remained absent. the trial court after proceed ing ex -parte against the defendant allowed the plaintiff petitioner to prove is case through evidence. the rial co urt passed ex -parte decree in fa vour of the petitioner plaintiff, in the light of evidence produced by the plaintiff petitioner. the defend ant respondent after expirey of limitation filed and application under order rule civil procedure code for setting aside ex parte decree. the trial court up to the learned chief court dismissed the application of defendant respondent as meritless a nd time barred. that the present respondent filed leave to before the -baltistan. the -favour of the application under order rule civil procedrure code. the learned trial court on the basis of evidence once again dismissed the application of the respo ndent for setting aside of ex parte decree. the learned 1st appellate court upheld the judgemnt order of the trial court. the respondent filed revision petition before the gilgit baltistan chief court against the judgment order of the lower courts. page that the learned chief court accepted the revision petition of respondent and set aside both judgment orders and also set aside ex parte decree and ordered for de -novo trial. hence this leave to appeal. we have heard both the lear ned counsel for the parties, perused the record of the case file and goone through the impugnad judgment orders, the chief court as well as the judgment order the learned lower courts, minutely. the contention raised by learned couns el of petitoner appellant, that, despite, the direction of this august court dated --. the respondent again failed to substantiate his case properly. the trial court on the basis of evidence once again dismissed the application of respondent for setting aside ex -parte decree. the learned chief court gilgit baltistan allow the petition unde order rule c.p.c and remitted back the case to trial court for denovo trial, which is incorrect against the facts and law, and also mis applied the law in passing impugnd judgment order. the learned counsel for the peltitioner referred the fo llowing judgments of various courts. references, clc scmr gblr scmr the above references discussed, limitation for ex -parte decree, as instant case falls under article on the other hand, counsel for the respondent referred the forllowing case laws. refernces page pld sc scmr pld quetta lr clc ylr pld sc scmr all the referred cases are discussed on date of hearing, in which no limitation is provided. we have gone through the case file orders judgments of lower courts, and also perused the evidence provided by the respondent before trial cour t, the evidence so produced by the respondent, could not establish the absence of respondent in gilgit city. the evidence produced by the respondent before learned rial court, could not established and substantiate, the case, considering he evidence as a whole and arri ving at a certain conclusion on the basis thereof, these are three things which are kept in view of the volume of evidence and probability of evidence. it is cumulative effect of all three aspects of evidnce that finally determines a certain question of fact. the respondent has badly failed to substantiate his non availabiltiy at gilgit city. we are in opin ion that, the respondent could not established his case. we are inclined to accept the leave to appeal convert, into appeal and the same is allowed, setting aside the page judgment order of chief court gilgtit baltistan, by maintaining the judgments orders of learned lower courts dated -- and -- parties bear their own cost. announced: --