page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. c. appeal no. in cpla. no. wajahat ullah nasim son of muhammad nasim khan juglote sai district gilgit. ammar ahmed son of mashroof ahmed kashrote gilgit. petitioners. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit. secretary works gilgit -baltistan, pwd gilgit. deputy secretary works gilgit -baltistan, pwd, gilgit. chief engineer gilgit region gilgit -baltistan pwd, gilgit. respondents. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governan ce order read with enabling articles of constitution of islamic republic of pakistan to the effect the impugned order of the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court dated .. may graciously be set aside by converting this leave to appeal into appeal and by accepting the appeal this .. .. by setting aside the impugned order of respondent no. ated .. it is further submitted that the contractual services of the petitioner may be converted into regular basis in accordance with the act no. of and the judgment of this apex court under c. misc. no. to meet the ends of justice. present: rehmat ali advocate -on-record for the petitioners. the advocate general on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... page judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal was directed against the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby the said writ petition filed by the petitioner was dismissed in limine. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal. consequently notices were issued to the respondent and the case was heard today on .. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner appointed in works department of gilgit -baltistan as assistant executive engineer bps vide .. on contract basis. consequently, the petitioner joined their dut ies and continued their job up to ... he further submits that in the meantime the gilgit -baltistan pwd has sent twelve () posts of assistant executive engineer to fpsc for direct recruitment and the same have already been filled in accordingly. further submits that the petitioner have already working against those posts on contract basis. the respondent no. has moved a summary for regularization of the service of the petitioners. he further submits that now the summary for regularization of the services of the petitioner has been withdrawn vide office .. which was illegal, discriminatory, ab -initio and null and void. the petitioner being aggrieved filed writ petition no. page before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court which upon hearing was dismissed, hence, this leave to appeal. he submits that according to a letter no.e admin employment on contract basis dated .. issued by the respondent according to the said letter the services of the petitioner can only be terminated giving them thirty () days notice on either side or payment of basic pay in lieu thereof without assigning any reason. the clause is mandatory in nature and the violation of it, is not condonable which vitiates the termination order being issued illegally without lawful authority. he finally submits that the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in the result of misconception of law and misreading non -readin of the facts of the case, therefore, the same is required to be set aside. on the other hand the learned advocate general supports the impugned order. he contends that the petitioner were appointed purely on contract basis and on completion of the per iod of the project the services of the petitioner cannot be regularized without the recommendation of the fpsc. all the posts from bps and above are appointed on the basis of the recommendation of the fpsc in accordance with law and rule. he further co ntends that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has rightly dismissed the writ petition of the petitioner vide .. which is in accordance with law and facts of the case, hence, no page interference is warranted into it and the same i required to be maintained to meet the ends of justice. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltis tan chief court. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the said impugned order. consequently, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequent thereto the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is maintained. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?