page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit. c. appeal no. in c.p.l.a. no. -ud-din, acting chief judge. muhammad ismail khushmir ex.lecturer computer science kiu village jalalabad tehsil and district gilgit. petitioner. vice chancellor karakoram international university gilgit. registrar karakoram inter national university gilgit. respondents. leave to the impugned judgment --, chief court gilgit -baltistan. present: sr. advocate alongwith mir akhlaq hussai advocate for the respondents. date of hearing: -- judgment: mr., before the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan, folding with the facts that, the appellant served the respond ent i nstitution as contract lecturer (bps -) in computer sciences department since till the appellant was granted le ave ithout pay to get higher ducation abroad and accordingly, he got admission in limkoping city sweden, university, succeeded to get deg ree of echnology master examination (m.phil) in computer science, after completing two years study in the said u niversity. the appellant was party to the c.p.l.a no. and in eview etition no. as petitioner among others before this court. the supra cited petitions were finally disposed of on merits and directives issued to the present respondent to regularize he contractual service of lecturers as a matter of right on the basis of their contractual appointments made by the respondent under the prescribed manners. the respondent regularized petitioner in page compliance of the orders directives of this ourt without further interview test but on the basis of their contractual employment made under the prescribed manners. the respondent showed discriminatory attitude in case of the present appellant and intentionally delayed to put up the appellant case efore the selection board. finally, his case was referred to the selection board but refused the right of appellant accrued to him at par to other petitioner under the -- and respectively by this court. the present responde nts regretted regular appointment of the present respondent through the letter dated may on the pretext of his failure in the fresh interview conducted by the selection board. hence the present appellant filed the supra writ etition before the le arned chief court. th writ petition was a division bench of the chief court and finally the rit was dismissed through the impugned --. the appellant being dissatisfied and feeling aggrieved with the impugned judgment, submi tted the leave to appeal no. c. appeal in c.p.l.a no. before this ourt. we heard the learned counsel for the appellant, the learned counsel for appellant raised some legal points. we felt the points require thorough considerati on and appreciation, hence we granted the leave to appeal and converted the petition into appeal vide order sheet dated --.on -. we, thereafter. heard the learned counsel for the parties and reserved the judgment to announce. today we announced the judgment after writing the same. we, after, hearing the counsel for the parties have reached to realize that, the issue between the parties pertains to the ratio decidendi of the judgment of this court. the counsel for appellant urges that, the judgments cited of this court have confirmed a right to the contract lecturers to be adjusted against regular posts without any fresh test interview on the basi of their contract services and no discretion vests with the selection oard of the respondent to negate the right of regular appointment of the contract lecturers. contrary to the learned counsel for the respondent is of the opinion that, the cited judgment, on the bases of which, the appe llant laims his right, if its para 2nd last is read with the operative part, then it becomes clear that, the page judgment has vested he selection oard with the discretion either to refuse or to select contract lecturers for regular post and the judgment as not given any vested right to them, to be adjusted without going through the prescribed manners afresh. the learned division bench of the chief court has acce ded the understanding of the respondent in this regard, through the impugned judgment and the appellant has come to this ourt, feeling aggrieved with. we, therefore, have gone through the judgments of this ourt cited and feel it proper to reproduce the relevant paras of the cited judgment in review petition no. hereunder: 2nd last para:. the rule of fair treatment and natural similarly the candidates who were appointed on contract basis in the (prescribed manner) would be entitled to be considered for regular appointment in their own right on the basis of their contract service. last para: in the light of the above discussion to ensure the fair treatment and transparent selection we direct that the registrar of the university will place the case of petitioner in review petitions no. and falling within the purview of para (b) and (c) of the with the above modification in the judgment under review these review petitions are disposed of. the paras, reproduced supra are very clear in their wording if read together that, this court has rec ognized right of the contract lecturers of their egular selection through election board in the respondent institution on the basis of their contract page service alone, provided that. the appointment against the post was made after going through the prescribed manners. the record of the case transpires th at, the respondent also acted upon the directions of this court in the referred case in the manners, as we have interpreted above and contract lecturers were regularized without any tes interview in the basis of their contract service with the satisf action of the selection board about their contract service in the prescribed manners. diversity was seen in the attitude of the respondents, when they refused to adjust some contract lecturers against the regular posts without assigning any reason. the a ffected contract lecturers approached to the chief court for redressal against the discriminatory attitu de of the respondent and there after, the issue came to this court in appeal, the learned chief court and this court passed the following judgments and restrained the respondent from discriminatory interpretation of the directives in the cited judgment of this court on the basis of liking and disliking and directed the respondent to adjust the petitioner as per directives of this court without any discrimination. the cases are referred as under: (a) implementation petition no.c.misc. -- me and my learned brothe judge, raja jalal -ud-din, when we were the judges in the learned chief court and my learned brother was author of the cited judgment. the relevant para of the same is reproduced here under: the petitioner and others in review petition no. hav been appointed on contract basis in the prescribed manners through the process of test and interview would not be required to undergo the same process of test and interview again for the purpose of regular appointment against the same posts, therefore, in all fairness they should have been considered for regular appointment on the basis of their contract appointment which were made in accordance with the prescribed method of appointment under the rules and view thereof we find nothing wrong with the dir ection contained in para above. (b) w.p.no. of the learned chief court -- the learned chief court, the author in this judgment was learned chief the judgment was acceded by this court vid -- of this court in appeal. page (c) this court has held likewise view in the case titled iftikhar ali kiu etc. --. in all the above cases this court and the learned chief court are in consonanc that, the -- in appeal no. and in review petitions no. have recognized and conferred a right to the contract lecturers, to be adjusted against the regular post on the basis of their contract service, provided that, their appointment in the contract basis was made, duly adopting the prescribed manners and no discretion has been left with the selection board or the respondent to negate the regular appointment of the contract lecture rs on the basis of any new interview or test with the exception that, the selection board or the respondent are having discretion to regret a regular appointment of a candidate, if it is found that, the candidate was appointed against the contractual post disregarding the prescribed manners. in the case in hand, it is admitted fact that, the appellant has not been regretted to adjust him against a regular post in context of his contract appointment, found to be in violation of the prescribed manners test interview but, he was refus ed to regularize his contract service in the light of fresh intervi ew made by the selection board when the appellant appeared before the boar for its recommen dation against regular post on the basi of his contract service as per directives of this court in the cited judgment s. the selection board has derogated and has traversed from the ratio decidendi laid down in all the above judgments referred in preceding paras of this judgment, notwithstanding the fact that, the board had no discretion to make the appellant undergo through fresh inte rview but otherwise too, he decision of the selection board against the appellant seems to be malafidey for the reasons that, the appellant was selected for the contract post by the respondent when he was not foreign qualified and he served as contract lecturer for more then years without any adverse remarks by the board after going through due process in prescribed manners but he was page regretted the regular appointment on the pretext of fresh interview, when he was armed with a foreign higher degree. we, have gon through the impugned judgment. in the same, the learned division bench of the chief court has held that, since the appellant has failed to convince the selection board for recommendation of him or regular appointment and on this score, the writ petition was dismissed but the learned judges of the chief court have forgotten, the previous legal view taken by the chief ourt in two identical cases (a) muhammad shahid malik etc. vice chancellor kiu etc and (b) mst. kaneez fatima vice chancellor etc, (referred in preceding paras of his judgment) in the later case the learned the senior ember of the division bench in this case, himself was author. in the impugned judgment, the learned division bench has not only have taken altogether a new view then that of the previous view held by the learned court it self but also have held divergence with the view taken by this court, disregarding the binding force of the judgment s, this court to follow by the courts below in the gilgit -baltistan and also have misconceived the dictum laid down in the cases cited in this judgment and have kept a door open to the respondent to deviate from the di ctum laid down by the superior getting a liecence there from, a blow hot and cold. consequent upon the above discussion, the impugned -- is set asid and the respondent are directed to adjust the appellant on the basi of his contractual service. announced:- --. acting chief