page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. c. appeal no. in cpla. no. babar khan son of tawalat shah sultanabad tehsil and district gilgit. petitioner. ghulam son of muhammad muhallah yalbo tehsil rondo at present amphari danyore gilgit. respondents. jami, karimullah son of qalb -e-ali shahpasand tehsil aliabad district hunza nagar. magistrate first class assistant collector gilgit, deputy commissioner office khomer gilgit. sme bank through manager bank gilgit. proforma respondents. present: rehmat ali advocate -on-record on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... malik shafqat wali senior advoc ate for the petitioner contends that the learned trial court without considering the legal position has allowed amendments in the plaint under order rule read with section cpc which was upheld by the learned district .. in civil revision no. the petitioner eing aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said order filed writ petition no. before the learned chief court page gilgit -baltistan, who passed order in one line and the petition was dismissed in limine without giving any reason vide .., which is against the natural justice. he further contends that two () independent transactions had been undertaken between the parties i.e one transaction between one muha mmad jami and the respondent while the other transaction between the petitioner and one kareem ullah khan, as such two independent cause of actions arisen in different occasions. the present respondent tried to engage the petitioner in the subsequent transaction which cannot be sustain ed as the subsequent transaction has a new cause of action which is not disputed. he finally contends that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court dis missed the writ petition of the petitioner vide .. which is not tenable in law hence, the same is require to be set aside. conversely, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned order of the learned gilgit -baltist an chief court. he submits that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has rightly dismissed the writ petition of the petitioner as the same was filed against .. passed in civil revision no. which was not main tainable. he fina lly submits that the impugned .. the learned gilgit baltistan chief court may graciously be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. page we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. in our considered view the impugned .. is not a speaking order as no reasons have been given while dis missing writ petition in limine. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned gilgit baltistan chief court is set aside. the case is remanded back to the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court to hear the parties afresh whereafter decide the same on its own merit s. the pe tition is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?