page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. c. appeal no. in cpla. no. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. secretary education gilgit -baltistan. director education gilgit. deputy director education district gilgit. petitioners. syeda kishwar batool syed mehdi shah oshikandass tehsil di strict gilgit. respondent. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the petitioners. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal was directed against the impugned judgment .. in writ petition. no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby the said writ petition was dismissed being meritless. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the page respondent and the case was fixed for final arguments on ... the learned advocate general contends that in the year one post of teacher est bps was advertised. the candidate placed at serial no. was appointed against the said post. he further contends that although one post of teacher es bps- was available in district gilgit and the said post was not advertised. he also contends that consequently four () members of the drc recommended the respondent alongwith one shabina karim abdul karim jalalabad gilgit for appointment against the vacant post for village oshikandass but the chairman of the board has not approved the minutes of the said drc. no letter of appointment has been issued. he further submits that legal actions have been taken against the members of the drc which are pending adjudication. he finally contends that the impugned judgment .. the learned gilgit baltistan chief court is the result of misconception of law and misreading non -reading of the facts of the case, therefore, the same is required to be set aside. on the other hand the learned counsel for the respondent submits that applications were sought from eligible candidates for appointment as est teachers bps in the year through advertisement. he further submits that he respondent got fifth position in the same test interview. he submits that one on .., during the course of which the respondent came to know that a post of st teacher bps- is lying vacant in girls high school oshikandass gilgit whereupon the respondent approached petitioner no. for her appointment on the said vacant post of the above mentioned union who recommended the case of respondent to the petitioner no. for appointment vide office order letter no. dde (admin) dated ... he further submits that the petitioner no. further recommended the same vide office order no. d.e. () dated .. to petitioner no. for appoin tment of the respondent. he further submits that the petitioner no. after getting the recommendations of petitioner no. referred the matter for drc to examine and issuing order of appointment. he also submits that consequently four () members of the drc recommended the respondent alongwith one shabina karim abdul karim jalalabad gilgit for appointment against the vacant post for village oshikandass. he further submits that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has rightly allowed the writ petition no. of the respondent vide .. which is in accordance with law and facts of the case, hence, no interference is warranted into it and the same is required to be maintained to meet the ends of justice. we hav heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the page learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. the learned advocate general for the petition ers could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment. consequently, we converted this petition into an appeal and the same was dismissed vide our short ... consequent thereto the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court was maintained. we have directed the petitioner provincial government of gilgit -baltistan to appoint the respondent in the light of the recommendation of district recruitme nt committee (drc) dated ... these were the reasons for our short ... the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?