page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. appeal no. in cpla no. sher afraz son of muhammad masih resident of muhallah kashrote tehsil district gilgit. petitioner. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan others respondents. present: rehmat ali advocate -on-record for the petitioner. the advocate general for respondent no. to (caa) gilgit. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed against the impugned judgment .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby the writ petition of the petitioner was dismissed in limini being meritless by maintaining the order of the collector. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. ranted leave to appeal and the case was heard today. page the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the collector gilgit has not included the name of the petitioner at the time of issuance of notices for award and payment of compensation. he also submits that at the time of preparation and payment of the award and compensation ne muhammad yaqoob jan muhammad, purportedly shown himself as owner of acquired land of the petitioner, whereas, the said muhammad yaqoob was not the owner of the said land. subsequently, on knowing of such wrongfully paid award to the fraudster, the petitioner being real owner of land in question filed reference before the learned collector district gilgit for issuance of award in his name. he also submits that the peti tioner filed civil suit for declaration before the learned civil he further submits that uring the proceedings of the refere nce said muhammad yaqoob jan muhammad appeared and admitted that he has got the compensation wrongly against the property in question and he is ready to refund the amount of reward to the petitioner being real owner. he also contended that the reference was decided on the basis of a compromise, and said muhammad yaqoob son of jan muhammad re-paid the award amount to the petitioner. subsequently the petitioner filed a reference before the collector to properly compensate him according to the prevailing market rate as the acquired land was of more value than assessed. the said page reference was dismissed by the learned collector on the ground of limitation, whereafter the petitioner filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan praying therein that he was not properly compensated as his land was of more value than assessed by the collector and his reference was a continuity of the litigations and no limitation runs against him. on the contrary the said petition was dism issed by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court vide .., which is a non -speaking order. he concludes that the impugned order is the result of misconception of law and misreading and non-reading of the facts of the case, hence, not tenable and liable to be set aside. while saying so he relied upon a case law reported as clc karachi on the other hand, the learned advocate general appearing on behalf provincial government and .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. they contend that the petitioner has been paid the compensation of his land acquired by the respondents. they also contend that initially due to an inadvertently the compensation was paid to an another person who also admitted that the said amount was wrongly paid to him. they further contend that the courts below have also extended the relie to the petitioner in accordance with law and no liability of the petitioner is left as he has received the due compensation page according to the prevailing rate of they finally contend that the impugned .. in writ petition no. is required to be uphe ld being in accordance with law and no interference is warranted. we have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. the perusal of the case file transpires that the compensation was paid to one fraudster muhammad yaqoob son of jan muhammad instead of the petitioner who was the real owner of the property in question. the petitioner approached the respondent for issuance of award compensation thereto within stipulated time. we are in agreement with the learned counsel for the petitioner and are inclined to remand the case back to the collector district gilgit who would refer the same before the learned referee court gilgit to hear and decide the same its own merits in accordance with law. the case law cited by the learned counsel for the petitioner is applicable. in view of the above discussions, we allow this appeal. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition pass ed by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the .. the learned district collector deputy commissioner gilgit are set aside. the case is remanded back to the learned collector deputy page commissioner gilgit with the irection to refer the same to the learned referee court gilgit to hear and decide the reference afresh on its own merits in accordance with law. the appeal is allowed case remanded in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?