page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. c. appeal. no. in c.pla. no. ministry of defense through secretary defence (d4) rawalpindi cantt. others petitioners. major muhammad farooq nabi khan wahdat colony jutial gilgit. respondent. civil leave to appeal (cpla) before baltistan under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order against impugned june the chief court gilgit -baltistan whereby office termination dated dec and dec of service employment of respondent have been set aside and respondent reinstated in the post with back benefits and to continue his service. present: the deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit baltistan alongwith -on- record on behalf of the respondent. -on-record for the respondent. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition is directed against the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in writ petition no. whereby, the writ petition of the petitioner was accepted and the petitioner has been declared entitled to continue his service in accordance with law with all back benefits. the respondent are page directed to reinstate the services of the petitioner and the termination .. issued by the respondent was set aside. the respondent feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this petition before this apex court for setting aside the said impugned judgment while maintaining the termination order no. pasb dated ... notice was issued to the responden ts vide ... briefly the facts of the case are that the respondent is a resident of gilgit -baltistan who after retirement from pakistan army was appointed as secretary district armed services board (dasb) gilgit on .. by petitioner no. on permanent basis. according to the appointment order, the respondent was placed on probation, in itially for a period of one () year from the date of his appointment extendable for further period of one () year but the probation eriod was not extended further. the respondent successfully completed one year probation on .. and subsequently, the respondent became permanent employee of pakistan armed services board. the petitioner no. through an .. terminated the respondent from his service without ass igning any reason or issuing any show cause notice and by this the petitioner violated the terms and conditions provided in the appointment order, he nce this leave to appeal was filed before this apex court and prayed therein setting aside the said impugned judgment while maintaining the termination order no. pasb dated ... page the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit -baltistan submits that the respondent was employed as secretary district armed board on .. vide order no. pasb dated .. with probation period of one () extendable to further period of one year which is reproduced as under:- registered ministry of defense pasb secretariat st- chaklala scheme rawalpindi tele: no. pasb to: maj muhammad farooq (retd) house no. street no. wahadat colony, jutial gilgit copy to: gilgit -baltistan asb dte gilgit dasb gilgit ministry of defense (d-) rawalpindi cantt cmp (isos) rawalpindi. subject: employment of secretary dasb gilgit (bps -) the competent authority has approved your appointment as secretary dasb gilgit (bps -) on permanent basis with effect from the date of assumption of the said appointment in bps --). the pension if any will be deducted from your pay. you will be on probation for a period of one year from the da te of your appointment extendable by order either before or after its expiry by a further period not exceeding one year provided that no order has been made by the day following the termination of either of the aforesaid probationary period, the appointmen shall be deemed to be held until further orders. during the period of your services are liable to be terminated at any time without and without any reasons being assigned thereof. you are liable to be posted anywhere in pakistan. page your whole time would be at the disposal of the government unless it is distinctly provided otherwise. you may be employed in any manner required by appropriate authority without claim for additional termination. you shall devote your whole time obey the rules prescribed for he time being for the regulations of the service of each to which the post in which leave been re employed belongs. you are directed to report for the above mentioned appointment as early as possible but not later than weeks from the date of receipt this letter. in case your do not report within the stipulated time your appointment will be considered as cancelled. your appointment is provisional subject to medical fitness and satisfactory verification of your character and antecedents. air cadr (assistant director general) (raja muhammad aslam) (retd). the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit -baltistan further submits that on account of shortage of regular director, the performance of the respondent during his initial first year probation period could not be evaluated, as such, the said probation period extended to further period of one year as extendable under relevant service rules which is also mentioned in the para of the appointment letter of the respondent. he also submits that during second probationary period while evaluating the performance of the respondent it revealed that the performance of the respondent was poor and below the minimum desire standards as he was taking least interest in the affairs of the department due to which his department suffered a lot. after this observation show cause notices and warning had been served upon the respondent. the respondent was given opportunities to improve his performance but he could not do so. he was also given right of page representation but again the respondent in vain to satisfy the competent authorities. consequently, the service of the respondent was terminated being the respondent not fit and suitable for his job. he also submits that the res pondent feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the termination order filed writ petition no. before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief cou rt. wherein, the learned chief court accepted the writ petition of the respondent without considering the legal points raised by the petitioner. hence, the impugned judgment is not tenable and liable to be set aside being the said is the result of misconception of law and misreading of the facts of the case. he finally submits that the impugned .. in writ petition no. may pleased be set aside to meet the ends of justice. on the other hand, .. to .. with enthusiasm. he also contends that the respondent was kept on probation for a period of one year extendable or further period of one year which was expired on .. and the respondent had successfully completed his mandatory period of two years probation and he had become permanent employee of pakistan armed service board (p asb). he contends that on .. the petitioner no. surreptitiously passed impugned termination page .. in contrary to the mandatory provision of service law i.e. efficiency and discipline rule the respondent was entitled to be the inquiry offic er and also entitled to defend the allegation charges, if any, before issuance of termination order by the petitioners. the learned counsel for the respondent also contends that no opportunity had been given to the respondent and his services were terminat ed on the basis of liking and disliking without issuing any show cause notice and assigning any reason thereto. the petitioner violated the mandatory provisions of law while issuing the said termination order. the said termination order was issued illegally and without lawful authority. he finally contends that the learned chief court has rightly set aside the said termination order in accordance with law and facts on record. the impugned .. in writ petition the learned chief court based on facts and law therefore, the same is tenable and no interference is warranted. he contends that this we have heard both the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record and gone through the impugned .., in writ petition no. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan as well as the impugned termination order no. pasb dated ... the learned deputy attorney general for the page petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment and interference i the impugned judgment is not warranted. consequently, we convert the petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is maintained. these are the reasons of our short ... the appeal is dismissed. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?