page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. appeal. no. in cpla no. mst. meherjani. mst. haleema of latif shah dashkin tehsil district astore. petitioners. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan, gilgit. deputy commissioner collector astore. deputy director education, gilgit. director education, gilgit. respondents. public at large village, dashkin, turbling, khusdkusht hercho district astore through representatives. i. ghulam muhammad hercho. ii. sifat mir mustafa. iii. ayub jumaraly khusdkusht. iv. yaseen ramzan dashkin, chairman union council doian district astore. proforma respondents. present: the advocate general on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed against the impugned judgment decree dated .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby, the civil revision of the respond ents was accepted while setting aside the concurrent findings of the courts below. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. page briefly the facts of the case are that the petitioner filed a civil suit no. and be fore the learned civil the said suit of the petitioner upon hearing was decreed in favour of the petitioner vide ... the respondent being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the judgment of the learned trial court filed cfa no. before the learned district whereby, the said civil first appeal of the respondent was dismissed, however, the judgment of the learned trial court to the extent of delivery of structure buildings and compound interest was varied. the respondent being aggrieved again called in question the said judgment before the learned gilgit -baltist an chief court who upon hearing set aside the concurrent findings of the courts below vide .. and the respondent were directed to prepare fresh award to the extent of suit land in favour of the petitioner as per prevailing rates of of the disputed land, hence, this leave to appeal before this court for setting aside the impugned judgment as well as the .. the learned district .e. .. till satisfaction of decree. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case was finally heard oday. page the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner are the owners of the disputed land which has been acquired by the respondent for constru ction of the building of boys middle school chila dass astore without paying compensation to the petitioners. he also submits that the petitioner being aggrieved filed civil suit no. and before the learned trial court astore who upon hearing decreed the suit in favour of the plaintiff petitioner in ac cordance with law and facts of the case. he further submits that the respondent being aggrieved filed civil first appeal before the learned district the respondent being aggrieved filed civil revision no. which upon hearing was allowed vide impugned ... he concludes his arguments that the impugned judg ment dated .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgment of the learned district on the other hand, the learned advocate general supports the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. he contends that the said impugned judgment is required to be maintained being passed in page accordance with law and facts of the case and no interference is warranted into it to meet the ends of justice. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgments of the courts elow. admittedly, the petitioner are the owners of the disputed land under khasra no. measuring kanals marla alongwith cattle shed and crops etc situated at chila dass district astore. it is also admitted fact that the said land was acquired on .. by the respondent who have constructed a government school at the disputed land while giving no compensation to its owners petitioners. in view of the above discussions the appeal is allowed. consequent thereto, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court and the .. in cfa. no. the learned district .. in civil suit no. and the learned civil the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?