page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. appeal no. in cpla. no. nadir ali sartaj khan chillas district diamer presently working as acting district support manager at district astore. appellant inam -ur-rehman inayat khan archu district astore, presently working as senior executive admin and finance people primary healthcare initiative (pphi) district support unit gilgit. respondent provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. secretary health program director pphi gilgit -baltistan. proforma respondent civil appeal under article sub article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order against the impugned passed in writ petition no. of of the gilgit -baltistan chief court, gilgit. present:- advocate alongwith advocate -on-record for the petitioner. advocate alongwith -on-record for the respondents. date of hearing: --. judgment javed iqba l, j............ through this leave to appeal the petitioner appellant named above has sought that people primary healthcare initiative (pphi) is a project which is being executed under an agreement with the gilgit -baltistan page government, by he gilgit -baltistan rural support program of gilgit -baltistan i an ngo i.e. gilgit -baltistan ural support program (gb. rsp) which is limited company by guarantee and not having a share capital and is registered as social welfare under article companie ordinance on the basis of no loss no profit by virtue of its registration is not sovereign nor controlled by the government, thus no such any writ -petition under article () (a) (ii) of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order is maintainable, thus passing impugned judgment is not warranted. that, passing the impugned judgment a great miscarriage of the facts gathered from the record of the cas e, as well as learned counsel for the parties. petitioner appellant and respondent no. applied for the post of executive admin and finance and appeared in he interview before respondent o. (secretary health program director pphi), and in result the res pondent no. was offered contract appointment vide office 1st june, while the name of petitioner appellant was kept in waiting list. on 1st march, when petitioner appellant was appointed as contract employee against above named pos of executive admin finance dsu ghizer. it is also admitted the answering petitioner appellant was appointed on the above post after registration of one aliyar khan another appointed person as executive admin finance who was appointed initially with he present respondent. present controversy was arose when the post of district support manager astore was held vacant due to promotion of an incumbent who was admittedly next senior to the respondent, that is why the respondent has preferre an application to respondent no. for his promotion against the vacant post of district support manager dsm) astore. his above application was directed to be put up before the promotion committee by the office of re spondent no. vide letter dated --, but to his utmost disappointment, page respondent no. was given the acting charge vide impugned --. it is also admitted fact, that, petitioner appellant had joined the department of respondent no. people primary healthcare initiative (pphi) on --, as admin officer district support unit dsu) diamer and on basis of his earlier joining of department, and requested for his promotion being a lleging senior from respondent o. as claimed in his parawise comments. from perusal of facts it transpires that impugned office order has been pr ocured by office of respondent o. with the recommendation that answering the petitioner appellant was most senior individual in office of people primary healthcare initiative (pphi) as admin officer against the record and facts of present case where both the respondent no. and petitioner appellant among others applied for the post of executive admin finance but petitioner appellant could not be appointed having less merit then the a lready appointed incumbent as mentioned above his name was kept in waiting list till 1st march, when he was appointed executive admin finance when the said post was afterwards fell vacant due to registration of an earlier appointed incumbent given facts the appellant petitioner by stretch of no imagination be held senior to respondent no., after three months of appoint ment of present petitioner as executive admin finance. being aggrieved, the above facts, respondent no. filed constitutional petition in shape of writ before the chief court gilgit baltistan and get a decision in his favour. we minutely peruse the record of the case with the help of counsel of both the parties as wel as impugned judgment learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. the learned counsel for the petitioner appellant has forcefully argued, that the people primary healthcare initiative (pphi) is ngo and their employees are contract employees the project renewable every year, and governed by the page terms and conditions of service agreement contract as executed between the management of company, and its employees have a right to ag itate their grievances before authorities of companies, no such any petition under article () (a) (ii) of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order is maintainable. the learned counsel of petitioner appellant referred following cases, scmr (maqsood ahmad toor etc federation of pakistan. pld sc (salahuddin etc frontier sugar mills etc). the learned counsel for the respondent on the basis of judgment of learned chief court has forcefully argued that the respondent had no adequate remedy except to invoke the writ petition of chief court, and people primary healthcare initiative (pphi) is not entirely private company as the board of directors or management consists of the officials of the government. it is not disputed the board of directors of people primary healthcare initiative (pphi) is controlling authority of company and under a rticle of association of company the board is empowered to see the service matter of the company. this being so the essential requiring determination to resolve the controversy would be firstly whether service rules of the employees of company framed by i ts directors of the company registered under companies ordinance have the status of statutory rules and secondly whether private limited organization in gilgit -baltistan in respect of its affairs is amenable to the writ jurisdiction of chief court gil git- baltistan. there are public and private limited companies. the public limited companies established under a statute are subject to the control of respective government, where affairs of private limited companies ordinance are controlled by the board of directors. the above characteristics of the public and private limited company registered under companies ordinance would distinguish the page rules of public company established under a statute from the rules of private company framed by th board of directors of company. the rules of a public limited company established under a statute are statutory rules, whereas the rules of private limited company are non -statutory rules. the service rules of company ca nnot governed by the rules of statutory law. the service rule of private limited com pany registered under companies ordinance certainly regulate the terms condition of service of employees of company and may have the force of law to determine the ight of employees relating to his service under such rules but there can be no departure to the rule that the validity of non -statutory rules cannot be questioned in writ-jurisdiction of chief court gilgit -baltistan as the employees of non-statutory bodies are governed by the principle of master and servant and service rules of such bodies subject to any exception or relationship inter -se employer and employees accordingly. there is settled law that the vires of non -statutory rules cannot be questioned in rit-jurisdiction. the reference may be made to government of gilgit -baltistan saeed faqeer (gblr ). the employees of people primary healthcare initiative (pphi) are neither civil servants nor their service is governed by statutory rules and in that, the issue relating to the service of company may not be adjudicate able by the chief court in writ -jurisdiction despite the fact that a registered company under the aw carries the status of a legal person with a right to sue and liability to be sued through its chief executive but the mere fact that a company is a legal person may not be necessarily subject to the jurisdiction of writ-petition of chief court in respec of its internal affairs, rather an aggrieved person may avail the appropriate remedy before a court of a general jurisdiction in respect of his grievance against the company. page having considered the contention of learned counsel for the parties in the light of the provision of law on the subject and companies ordinance we proceeded to convert this petition into an appeal and allowed the same vide --, for the reasons to be recorded later on, this appeal is allowed, consequent ly, the impugned -- passed in writ-petition o. by the learned chief court is set aside the above are detail reasons for the short order and this appeal accordingly succeeds with no order as to costs. appeal allowed. announced: --.