page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. misc. no. in cpla no. project director (swh) wapda sunny view kashmir road lahore. petitioner. zia-ur-rehman, hydrographer surface water hydrology (swh) wapda at thalichi district diamer. respondent. federal government through secretary water power islamabad. chairman water power development au thority, wapda house lahore. chief engineer w.h water power development authority, wapda house lahore. general manager water power development authority, wapda house lahore. general manager (cnmm) water power development authority wapda house ahore. executive engineer (swh) wapda gilgit -baltistan, juglote, gilgit. assistant executive engineer (swh) wapda gilgit -baltistan, jaglote. sub engineer (swh) wapda gilgit -baltistan, juglote, gilgit. proforma respondent present: the deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit on behalf of respondent no. to date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, j..... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the case was decided ex parte against the petitioner without discussing its merit s. page subsequently, an application bearing civil misc. no. filed by the petitioner which was also dismissed vide .. by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court without giving any reason. he further submits that the learned gilgit baltistan chief court has not applied its judicial mind while deciding the writ petition no. as well as civil misc. no. which is against the principle of natural in view of the above discussions, we convert this petit ion into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. and .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court are set aside. the case is remanded back to the learned gilgit -baltistan chief co urt to hear afresh and to decide in its own merit. at this stage submits that directions may graciously be given to the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court to decide the matter expeditiously within a period of one month. the request is allow ed. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is directed to hear and decide the petition within one month in its own merits the petition allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not? page