page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. c. misc. no. in cpla no. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. secretary services gilgit -baltistan. inspector general of police gilgit -baltistan. petitioners. muhammad anwar khan (rtd sp) gilgit -baltistan police (deceased) through his legal heirs. mst. sartaj begum late muhammad anwar khan. zakia anwar. kaisar abbas. attia zehra. khuram jamal. tariq jamal daughters and sons of late muhammad anwar khan residents of amphary gilgit. respondents. present: the advocate general alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... the learned advocate general submits that the respondent late muhammad anwar khan retired from police department government of gilgit baltistan as superintendent of police on ... he also submits that the responden filed a writ anti -date proforma promotion on .. as assistant inspector general (aig) bps after two years of his retirement and during pendency of the said writ petition the respondent has died on ... he page further submits that after establishment of gilgit -baltis tan service tribunal the case of the respondent has been transferred to gilgit baltistan service tribunal on .. who upon hearing allowed the service appeal of the respondent vide .., hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal without considering maintainability of the service appeal allowed the same vide impugned .. which is not sustainable and liable to be set as ide being the result of misinterpretation of law and misreading non -reading of the facts of the case. he finally argued that at the time of the retirement of the respondent no post was available to promote the respondent and the appeal was filed by the respondent after two years of his retirement, hence, the same was not tenable and the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal has failed to apply its judicial mind while allowing the appeal of the respondent. we have heard the learned advocate general at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. the learned advocate general could not point out any infirmity and illegality in the said impug ned judgment. the perusal of the case file transpires that a feeding post of sp bps i.e. the assistant inspector general bps was vacant against which the respondent was required to be promoted as it was to be page filled in through promotion from amongst the ssp sps of gilgit baltistan police. the working paper for promotion of the respondent as aig was also prepared and the same was forwarded, however, the meeting of the dpc could be convened till the retirement of the respondent for the reasons best know by the petitioners. in view of the above discussions, we are not inclined to grant leave. the leave to appeal is refused accordingly. consequently, the impugned .. in appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal is maintained. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?