page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. c. misc. no. in smc. no. (complaint against custom authority on sost). present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan. the deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit baltistan. (fbr) alongwith custo collector (fbr) gilgit -baltistan. -on-record. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... .. in daily ausaf was based on hearsay. he further contended that the learned collector of custom gilgit -baltistan and his officers efficiently performing their duties regarding clearance of goods at sost dry port and has collected revenue amounti ng to rs. ,,, millions) during the last financial year. the report submitted by fbr and directorate general intelligence and investigation -fbr islamabad seems to be satisfactory, however, certain questions raised by one of us (, j) as to whether the taxes so for collected at sost dry port, from it any amount has been deposited in gilgit -baltistan council consolidated fund or otherwise. my learned brother page under what authority and whose orders the customs check post station at sost was established and functioning? under what authority and whose orders the model custom collector at gilgit is functioning? under what authority and whose orders the then cbr an now fbr is functioning in gilgit -baltistan? this court appreciates for the steps taken by directorate general intelligence and investigation fbr and by the federal board of revenue in establishing office of regional directorate of director intellige nce investigation at gilgit -baltistan. we believe that the establishment of the regional office of the directorate general intelligence and investigation -fbr at gilgit -baltistan would not only increase enhance the working of customs department at sost dry pot but play a positive role in preventing the smuggling activities at sost dry port etc in the national interest. this case is disposed off in above terms, however, the registrar of this court must be kept informed of developments regarding establ ishment of regional office of the directorate general, intelligence and investigation -fbr in gilgit -baltistan. the reply on the queries raised by this court be also submitted to the registrar of this court within a period of three () months. the copy of this order be sent to the learned chairman federal board of revenue, islamabad and to the learned director general, directorate general of intelligence investigation -fbr for compliance. page the case is disposed off in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?