page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. c. misc. no. in cpla. no. mehboob riaz son of qabool niat thak district diamer at present sip police station gunar farm, district diamer. petitioner. fiyaz ahmed son of muhammad rafique, goharabad head constable police station tangir district diamer. provincial government through chief sectary, gilgit -baltistan. deputy commissioner chairman house allotment committee chilas. additional deputy commissioner chilas, district diamer. assistant commissioner chilas, district diamer. tehsildar head quarter chi las. accounts officer agpr chilas, district diamer. respondents. civil petition foe leave to appeal under of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, against the impugned judgment order date .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in civil revision no. whereby accepting the revision petition judgment decree dated .. the learned district .. the learned civil present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the provincial government. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... page judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed against the impugned judgment .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby the civil revision no. filed by the respondent was allowed while setting aside the .. in civil first appeal no. the learned district .. in civil suit no. of the learned civil the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal to set aside the impugned judgment .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court while maintaining the judgments orders the courts below. the brief facts of the case are that the respondent no. plaintiff filed a civil suit no. in the court of learned civil in government colony harpan dass chilas on .. which upon hearing was dismissed vide ... the respondent no. 01being aggrieved filed civil first appeal no. before the learned district ... page the respondent no. feeling aggrieved filed civil revision no. before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, wherein the said revision petition of the respondent no. was allowed while setting aside the impugned orders of the courts below i.e. dated .. of the first appellate court and .. of the learned trial court. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appe al. this court vide order .. issued notices to the respondent for their appearance and the case was heard on ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the respondent plaintiff filed a civil suit no. in the court of learned civil he further submits that upon hearing, the learned civil ... he further submits that feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said order filed civil first appeal no. before the learned district he further submits that the learned district .. dismi ssed the appeal declaring the same meritless and upheld the order of the learned civil he further submits that the respondent no. to allotted the suit government house in favour of the respondent no. initially. later on the respondent no. was posted to tangir and the respondent no. to being the competent page authorities allotted the said house in favour of the petitioner being entitled for the said house. he further submits that the learned trial court as well as the learned first appellate court have rightly dismissed the appeal of the respondent no. whereas the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has wrongly and without applying its judicial mind set aside the judgments orders of the courts below vide judgmen dated .. in civil revision no. which is not tenable being the result of misconception of law and misreading non -reading of the facts of the case. he prayed that the impugned judgment may very graciously be set aside to meet the ends of on the other hand, alongwith the learned advocate general support the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief co urt. they contend that the government quarter no. situated at harpan dass chilas was allotted to the respondent no. by the competent authority vide allotment order no. dev. dated .. but the same allotment order was illegally cancell ed vide impugned office order no. dev. dated .. which was required to be set aside but the learned civil whic was upheld by the learned district they further contend that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has rightly and in accordance with the law and facts of the case allowed the revision petition no. which is required to be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned counsels for respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgments orders the learned courts below. admittedly the suit quarter is a government house which was initially allotted to the respondent no. but later on the same was allotted to the petitioner by the competent authorities. the respondent no. has been posted out to another tehsil who was residing in the said house as tenant, therefore, he cannot retain the said house situated at tehsil chilas. the competent authorities have rightly cancelled the allotment order of the said house in his favour. in view of the above discussions, we converted this petition into an appeal and the same was allowed vide our short ... consequently, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court page was set aside whereas the .. in civil first appeal no. of the learned district .. in civil suit no. of the learned civil the learned trial court was directed to proceed with the civil suit no. expeditiously and decide he case in its own merit without influencing of any observation made by the appellate court, revisional court or by this court. these were the reasons for our short ... the petition is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?