page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. misc. no. cpla. no. muhammad abuzar balinas resident of thore chilas diamer. petitioner. chairman parc blue area islamabad. member northern region pakistan research council blue area islamabad. director general karakorum agriculture research institute for northern areas (karina), parc, juglote gilgit. respondents. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment governance) order, with order xiii of supreme appe llate court northern areas (amended rules against the judgment of the gilgit -baltistan chief court dated .. in writ petition no. whereby the chief court has dismissed the writ petition. present: johar ali khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... judgement. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal has been arisen out of the impugned in writ petition no. the page learned gilgit -baltistan chief court wherein the writ petition of the petitioner was dismissed declaring the same as meritless. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. the brief facts of the case are that the petitioner was appointed as assistant store keeper (bps -) on contract basis vide office december, under th following terms conditions: his appointment will be made on contract basis which will not confer upon him any title to or permanent appointment in the parc. head quarter of the post is at juglote but he can be changed at the option of parc and he wil be liable to serve anywhere in pakistan. his appointment will be governed in accordance with parc government rules regulations. this order will be effective with effect from .. to be further order. in pursuance of the above office order th petitioner served for one year on contract basis subsequently, the services of the petitioner have been terminated vide september, due to non availability of the fund etc. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the cabinet secretariat, establishment division, government of pakistan issued an office memorandum no. -r-ii dated 29th august, wherein all the contract employees serving in bps to bps in all federal page ministries divisions attached departments subordinate offices autonomous bodies corporations have been regularized except the petitioner which is discriminatory in nature. the respondent did not regularize the services of the petitioner at par with other contract contingent employee of parc which is again not an equal treatment, hence, the termination .. issued by the respondent no. is illegal, void and unlawful, therefore, the same is required to be set aside to meet the ends of justice. he submits that the earned chief court while passing the impugned .. could not apply its judicial mind and subsequently failed to understand the case of the petitioner and dismissed the writ petition of the petitioner wrongly on the solely ground of lac king of requisite qualification for the impugned post, hence, the said impugned judgment is required to be set aside being the result of misconception of law and misreading non reading of the facts of case. he finally submits that the petitioner may be ap pointed as store man bps -. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. he contends that the learned chie court has rightly dismissed the writ petition filed by the petitioner as the same was not sus tainable. the petitioner being not a graduate was not eligible for the post of assistant store keeper against which he was appointed on contract basis. he furthe contends that the rules page and regulations of pakistan agricultural research council does not permit to appoint a non graduate individual against the post of assistant -cum-store keeper (bps -). we have heard both the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as other material available on record. the learned couns el for the petitioner could not point out any inf irmity illegality in the said impugned judgment, hence, the petition is converted into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is maintained. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?