page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. c. misc. no. c. appeal no. in cpla. no. manshah ali khan son of muhammad ali khan assistant warder fisheries. syed shahauddin shah son of salamuddin shah assistant warder fisheries. petitioners. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. secretary agriculture, livestock and fisheries gilgit -baltistan. secretary services gilgit -baltistan. director fisheries, gilgit -baltistan. deputy director, fisheries, gilgit -baltistan. masood iqbal son of sarfraz khan fisheries supervisor (bps -) chilas. respondents. leave to the impugned judgment .. of writ petition of respondent no. and impugned judgment .. of learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in review petition whereby the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has accepted the writ petition of respondent no. and dismissed the review petition of the petitioners. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for provincial government. munir ahmed advocate on behalf of the respondent no. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. page dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been arisen out of the impugned judgment .. in writ petition no. as well as the judgment .. in review petition the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby the civil misc. no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed being time barred. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent for their appearance and the case was hear on ... the brief facts of the case are that the petitioner were performing their duties in the department of fisheries gilgit baltistan as assistant wardens. the respondent no. to promoted the petitioner as assistant warden (bps -) a gainst the lying vacant posts. the respondent no. feeling aggrieved filed writ petition no. in the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court which upon hearing was allowed and the impugned .., .. and .. issued by he respondent no. to were set aside. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied filed review petition no. which was also dismissed being barred by time. the learned counsel for the petitioner contends that petitioner were performing their duties in the department of fisheries as assistants wardens. he further contends that the petitioner were promoted against the vacant posts of assistant warden bps by the respondent meanwhile the respondent no. page fil ed writ petition before the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan. he further contends that the learned chief court gilgit baltistan vide its impugned .. without hearing the petitioner accepted the writ petition of respondent no.. he further submits that the impugned judgment has been passed without hearing the petitioner therefore the same is not sustainable. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan did not apply its judicial mind while passing the impugned judgment as the writ petition no. by the respondent was barred by the principle of res -judicata. he also contends that the respondent no. had earlier filed a writ petition no. which was dismissed by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. the respondent no. has concealed that fact from the court and had subsequently filed writ petition no. and got the impugned order in his favour which was not maintainable and the same required to be set aside in the interest of justice. on the other hand, munir ahmed advocate appearing on behalf of respondent no. and the learned advocate general support the .. and impugned .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan in writ petition no. and civil misc. no. respectively. they submit that the respondent no. was entitled for promotion being senior to th petitioner at seniority list. they further submit that the respondent no. wa fulfilling all the codal formalities for the page promotion against the posts of assistant warden bps i.e. educational qualification and length of service and the impugned post was also a feeding post. they further submit that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has righty allowed the writ petition no. vide .. and impugned .. in civil revision petition no. they also submit that the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court may graciously be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil revision no. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. admittedly, the respondent no. was entitled for promotion against the post of assistant warden bps being at serial no. of he seniority list and he was fulfilling the requisite conditions for the promotion against the said post. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality infirmity in the impugned orders judgments. in view of the above discussions, we onverted this petition into an appeal and the same was dismissed vide our short ... consequently, the impugned judgment .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan as well as th judgment .. in review petition no. page the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan are maintained. these were the reasons of our short ... the petition is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?