page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. misc. no. c. appeal no. in cpla.no. muhammad amin ali muhammad eidgah, tehsil astore, district astore. petitioner. government of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary, gilgit baltistan. deputy director l.g r.d, gilgit. deputy commissioner, astore. assistant commissioner, astore. respondents. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, against the judgment .. the gilgit -baltistan chief court. present: the advocate general, gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition has been directed against the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby the appeal of the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan was accepted and the concur rent findings judgments decrees the learned additional district the petitioner feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment filed this leave to appeal. the brief facts of the case are that the petitioner was the employee of the department of civil supply gilgit -baltistan who later on was terminated from his service vide office .., issued by the respondent on the allegation of misappropriation of bags of wheat weighing kgs which valued to amounting of rs. ,, the petitioner being aggrieved filed civil suit no. in the court of learned civil ... the respondent being aggrieved preferred civil first appeal no. before the learned additional district whereby, the appeal of the respondent was di smissed vide .. in cfa no. the respondent feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed civil revision no. which upon hearing was allowed vide impugned .. and the concurrent findings of both the courts below were set aside and the impugned termination order no. lb rd -() dated .. issued by the respondent no. was maintained, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide order da ted .. granted leave to appeal and notices were accordingly issued to the respondent and the case was fix for final arguments on ... the petitioner page during pendency of this petition died on .. and his legal heirs were impleaded vide ... without fulfilling the mandatory conditions of inquiry and without giving any show cause notice to the petitioner had terminated the servic es of the petitioner vide impugned termination order no. lb rd -() dated .. issued by the respondent no. he further submits that the petitioner denied all the allegations and submitted a reply to the respondent but the same was also not considered. he further contends that the petitioner was condemned unheard. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed civil suit no. in the court of learned civil judge, gilgit which upon hearing was partially decreed in favor of the plaintiff petitioner vide ... he further submits that the respondent being aggrieved preferred civil first appeal no. before the learned additional district whereby, the appeal of the respondent was di smissed vide .. in cfa no. the respondent feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed civil revision no. which upon hearing was allowed vide impugned .. and the concurrent findings of bot the courts below were set aside and the impugned termination order no. lb rd -() dated .. issued by the respondent no. was maintained contrary to the facts of the case. he also page submits that the petitioner has passed away on .. uring pendency of this petition while leaving behind his one () widow, two () daughters and five () sons who are minor and are totally dependents. the administration of so as, they may survive and live a normal life without facing financial crisis during their orphan hood. he finally submits that the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan, chief court is the result of misconception of law and misreading non -reading of the facts of case, hence, the same is not sustainable and liable to be set aside while the .. in civil suit no. the learned civil judg gilgit as well as the .. in cfa no. the learned additional district judge, gilgit are well reasoned and well founded which are required to be maintained to meet the ends of on the other hand, he learned advocate general submits that the petitioner has misappropriated a huge number of wheat amounting to rs. from the concerned civil supply depot which caused heavy oss to the government exchequer. he further submits that the espondents on the recommendation of the inquiry officer have rightly terminated the services of the petitioner vide termination order no. lb rd () dated .. issued by the respondent no. page under efficiency disciplinary (e d) rule. he furth er submits that the learned gilgit -baltistan, chief court has very rightly upheld the same termination order in accordance with law and facts of the case, therefore, no interference is warranted into it in the interest of justice. he finally submits that he same may please be maintained. we have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgments the courts below. the perusal of the record reveals that the petitioner has passed away while leaving behind eight () legal heirs and five of them are minors whereas one widow and two daught ers who are also reliant and they cannot be deprived from the monetary benefits as their father petitioner has rendered his services for a considerable period of fifteen () years three () months and nineteen () days and he has died during pendency of this petition. admittedly no show cause notice was served upon to the deceased petitioner, inquiry was conducted and no opportunity was provided him to defend the allegation. the mandatory provisions of law were violated and he was condemned unheard. resultantly, we converted this petition into an appeal and the same was allowed vide our short ... consequent thereto the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned page gilgit -baltistan chief court was set aside whereas the .. in cfa no. the learned additional district .. in civil suit no. the learned civil ... the legal heirs of the petitioner are entitled to all pensionary monetary benefits including all back benefits. the respondent are directed to pay all the pensionary back benefits to the legal heirs of the petitioner without fail at the earliest possible time and continue to pay pension to the widow without creating any technical hurdles. these were the reasons for our short ... the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?