page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. misc. no. in cpla. no. chairman akistan agriculture research council (parc), sector p.o box no islamabad. director, mountain agriculture research center (marc) juglote, district gilgit. petitioner s. ejabat shah son of aziz jan chupursan gujal hunza district hunza nagar. respondent. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, against the judgment .. the gilgit baltistan chief court. present: rehmat ali advocate -on-record for the petitioner. date of hearing: ... judgement. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court wherein the writ petition of the petitioner was allowed and the impugned termination order of the respondent was declared ab-initio, void and illegal. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. page the brief facts of the case are that the respondent was initially appointed as clerk in olive project for a period of years on contract ba sis at the fixed salary of rs. per month in mountain agriculture research center (marc) vide office 7th march, consequently, the contract period was completed on ... meanwhile, keeping in view the qualif ication of the respondent i.e. m.sc. in economics, the respondent was appointed on regular basis as assistant admin. officer security (bps -) in the marc vide office ... in pursuance of the said office order the respondent joined his uties on .. subsequently, the respondent was transferred to district diamer chilas from the liaison office gilgit vide officer order ... later on due to posting transfer of the petitioner no. i.e. director general, marc, the petitioner no. illegally and without any cogent reason stopped the respondent to continue his services and the salary of the respondent has also been stopped without any justification. the respondent being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with his termination .. filed writ petition no. which upon hearing was allowed vide impugned .. by the gilgit -baltistan chief court, hence, this petitio for leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that writ petition filed by the respondent was not maintainable for the reason that the respondent will have to exhaust remedies at the page departmental forum against discontinuati on termination of his services and the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has wrongly not only entertained the same writ petition but also allowed the same contrary to the law and facts. he further submits that the said writ petition was also filed in vi olation of the section of the pakistan agriculture research council (parc) ordinance, and the statement of the respondent at para no. in the writ petition is self contradictory. he further submits that the appointment .. of the respondent issued by the petitioner no. was factitious and bogus as a post of assistant admin. officer assistant security officer (sps -) was not vacated available in the strength of mountain agriculture research council marc ). he contended that the case as set out by the respondent was of factual controversies and in such cases the writ petition does not lie. he further submits that the appointment of petitioner respondent no. i.e. (bps- ), as such appointment of respondent by petitioner no. is ab -initio void and illegal. he finally submits that the appointment ord er of the respondent has already been cancelled with drawn vide office .. which was already been communicated to the respondent. he lastly submits that the impugned .. the page learned gilgit -baltistan chief ourt may kindly be set aside being not sustainable. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent submits that his client was performing his duties with professional enthusiasm from the inception of his appointment uninterruptedly. however, when the director general was replaced, the intervention started i.e. firstly, the respondent was directed to discontinue his job, secondly, his salary was also withheld with malafidly. the same act of the petitioner was illegal, vo id and without lawful authority. consequently, the respondent filed writ petition no. which upon hearing was accepted. the petitioner were directed to release the salary of the respondent from the date of his joining as the impugned termination letter dated .. was declared ab -initio, void and illegal. he finally submits that the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court may pleased be maintained being well reasoned and well founded as no interven tion is warranted into it. we have heard both the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilg it-baltistan chief court as well as othe material available on record. admittedly, the respondent has not exhausted departmental his termination letter. further, the factual controversies are involved in page this case as on one hand the respondent claims that he had been appointed as assistant admin. officer assistant security officer (sps-) vide appointment .. (bps -) by the competent authority i.e. the petitioner no. on the other hand, the petiti oners contend that the said appointment order was factitious and bogus as the same post against which the respondent was appointed was neither created nor vacated available in the strength of marc. in case where alternate remedy is available and or in the case factual controversies are involved the writ does not lie in circumstances. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is set aside. the respondent may seek other remedies available to him in proper forum in accordance with law. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?