page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit. c. review. no. in smc. no. chief judge. judge. the water and powe development authority (wapda) through the project director, sadpara dam project, skardu. petitioner ahlian -e-sat para skardu through their representatives: () haji muhammad raza ghulam hussain, () haji muhammad yousaf haji asim, () hamza ali muhammad hussain, the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan. through the chief secretary, gilgit. the deputy commissioner collector district skardu. ahlian -e-new ranga through their representatives, () muhammad ahmad () nadeem muhammad ali, () sher ali haji ismail, () kacho abbas kacho muhammad ali khan, () saleem shakoor ali, () muhammad yaqoob shakoor ali, all residents of new ranga, district skardu. respondent present:- muhammad shafi sr. advocate on behalf of petitioner. muhammad issa sr. advocate for respondent alongwith johar ali advocate. xen wapda. review petition under article of gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, and rule xxvi of supreme appellate court rule read with section and order of c.p.c. against the judgment -- passed in suo motu case no. s.m.c. no. by this honorable court on the petition of respondent no. whereby the petitioner has been directed to deposit the page amount of compensation of land within two months for on ward payment to the efectees and the petitioner will ensure deposit of the amount in question and in case of failure by the petitioner to deposit the amoun t, the respondent no. will pay the amount of compensation to the respondent no. and the respondent no. shall proceed in the matter fro recover of amount on compensation from acquiring agency as arrears of land revenue in view of the position explain ed by the collector and the advocate general. for reviewing of the impugned judgment -- of this honorable court and for setting aside the same for the ends of date of hearing: ... order through this petition, the -- this court has been assailed. the review petition is hopefully barred by time and even otherwise, the review petitioner was not a party to the proceeding in which the order impugned was passed. the applicat ion for condonation of delay has been filed but no plausible reason has been given to condone the delay of days. in the present circumstances, no ground for condonation of delay has been made out. in view of the above, the review petition is dismisse d. chief