page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. c.appeal no. in cpla no. chief judge. -ud-din, judge. judge. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan and others petitioner naem -ud-din ot arabic teacher boys high school no. gilgit and others. respondent leave to appeal under artilce of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance order against the judgment dated -- chief court gilgit baltistan. present: the advocate general gilgit on behalf of the rovincial government. mir akhlaq hussain, advocate on behalf of respondents. dated of hearing: --. order ..... this leave to appeal is directed against the --, a division bench of the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan, whereby the present petitioner were given directives to give effect to the orders of promotion of the present respondent from the date of their promotion in bps --. his leave to appeal is apparently time barred by days despite that, we granted this page petition to consider the objection raised by the learned advocate general about the order sheets maintained by the assistant registrar of the chief court, a the same objection required deeper appreciation. today, we heard the learned advocate general and the counsel for respondents. their able assistance brought us to the conclusion that, certainly, the assistant registrar has committed some legal errors during maintaining order sheets and has crossed his limits as even he has issued some directives to the parties in the order sheets maintained by him. we have taken serious note of the errors made by the assistant registrar chief court and warn the adm inistrative officers of the chief court to understand their power limits and refrain from acting as a however, the mistakes made by the assistant regis trar in the case in hand, give no way to consider the impugned judgm ent void or without lawful authority. the impugned judgment is independent of any influence of the mistakes made by the assistant registrar and based on admission made by the respondent. hence it is held that, the limitation runs against the petition. last but no the least the learned advocate general solicits condonation of the delay in reference with a application under section limitation act, filed along with the leave to appeal. the application is perused, which states grounds of condonation as that, the delay in filing of the leave to page appeal before this court, has been caused because of adaptation of the self created procedure to seek permission from higher authorities to file the same before the court. the limitatio act does not recognize this method which is always used by the government departments. no concession in this regard has been given by the law to any government or any department of it. section of the limitation act demands from the parties seeking cond onation, to account for each and every day of the delay and to prove circumstances inevitable and beyond human control. the august supreme court of pakistan is also in consonance with us in holding this view in an identical case reported scmr page the order of the august supreme court of pakistan is short but very precise which is reproduced here in under: order the petition is barred by ten days. the delay is sought to be condoned on the ground that the petitioner first sought the advice of the law and islamabad for filling the leave to appeal. thereafter certified copy of judgment was obtained and the delay occurred due to completion of necessary official formalities in the department of the petitione rs. we are afraid, the plea raised by the petition relates to their internal difficulties for which the opposite party cannot be penalized. it is well settled that the government does not enjoy any preferential treatment qua an ordinary litigant in the applicability of law of limitation. the petition is dismissed as time barred. since the learned advocate general has failed to submit any cogent ground to get condonation of the limitation in filing the page leave to appeal before this court a such the appeal is dismissed as time barred without going into the merits of the appeal. no order as to cost. file. announced -- chief