page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. review no. in c. appeal no. chairman akesp petitioner. qayyum shah respondents. present: manager, human resource akesp attorney for the petitioner. date of hearing: ... date of announcement of judgment: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this review petition has been directed against the impugned .. in civil appeal no. this court whereby the said civil appeal filed by the respondent was allowed by directing the pet itioners to extend the benefits of voluntary early retirement scheme (vers) given to other employees teachers in line with the principle of onsistency. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case was heard on .. and the judgment was reserved. neither the advocate -on-record nor counsels for bot the parties are present today, however, manager, human resource aga khan education services pakistan page (akesp gilgit attorney for the petitioner is present in person who opted to argue his case whereas the respondent could not advance his arguments being ignorant with law. he, however, submitted written arguments in support of his contentions as directed by this court wherein he supports the impug ned judgment this court. he prays that the said impugned judgment this court may graciously be maintained to meet the ends of justice. we have heard manager, human resource, aga khan education services pakistan (akesp) gilgit attorney for the petitioner at length, gone through the impugned judgment and the written arguments of the respondent. since, the learned manager human resource, akesp attorney for the petitioner could not oint out any illegality infirmity in the impugned .. in civil appeal no. this court, therefore, no indulgence is warranted into it. in view of the above, we dismiss this review petition by maintaining the imp ugned .. in civil appeal no. this court. this civil review petition is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.