page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit. judge. (chamber appeal) c. misc. no. in civil misc.no. in cpla no. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. secretary forest gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. chief conservator forest gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. conservator forest diamer astore circle. dfo chillas district diamer. rfo chillas district diamer. petitioner s. abdul ghayas babar khan. respondent. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the petitioners. advocate for the respondent, advocate -on-record. date of hearings: --, --, --, -- --. date of detail judgment: judgment. wazir shakeel ahmad, .. through this petition titled above the petitioner have sought leave to the judgment order of the chi ef court gilgit -baltistan dated --, whereby the writ petiti on of the present respondent was accepted with the direction to the present petitioner to allow the respondent page to transport timber in volume of cft as per permit number from chil las to rawalpindi. the present controversy cropped up when the petitioner no. through his section officer withdrew the letter dated --, issued by the office of the respondent no. with the direction to the petitioner no. to ensure that no timber may be transported as allowed in the earlier letter dated --. the brief facts of the case are that the respondent applied for a transport permit before the petitioner on --, under timber disposal policy pertaining to tr ansport of timber measuring cft situated at botogah chil las. the application of the petitioner was dully processed by the respondent no. by seeking report from the concerned authorities. the respondent no. vide letter dated --, on the ba sis of report of regional forest officer respondent no. acknowledged the said permit of timber measuring cft is lying on the spot at botogah chillas and the name of the applicant is reflected in the list of and thereby sought further proper guidance and permission regarding disposal of the said timber. it is also on record that the petitioner no. conservator forest diamer astore circle vide letter dated --, confirmed that the assessment checking team had errone ously missed the name insertion of the name of the respondent in the timber assessment list (tal inspite of the fact that name of the respondent was there in the assessment list of timber policy of the chief conservator forest petitioner no. vide letter dated -- forwarded the case of the petitioner no. secretary page forest with the recommendation that the impugned timber was included in the list of and the same could not be included in assessment list of further seeking guidance from petitioner no.. in the result of above long proceedings the secretary forest petitioner no. was pleased to approve inclusion of cft illegal timber in the assessment list of infavour of the respondent from botogah chillas on the basis of recommendation of dfo, chief conservator and conservator forest i.e. petitioner no. to for completion of other codal formalities as per timber disposal policy the petitioner no. dfo chillas vide office rder --, seeking detail report of the timber letter submission of marking list for approval and further transportation under the policy the rfo visited the site physically for necessary verification and after completion of the same the petiti oner was allowed to deposit number of fees, royalty etc. for transportation of cft as per transport permit. that after fulfilling all the requirements and paying all the dues the respondent got loaded timber into the trucks and was about to move towards down country meanwhile the petitioner no. got issued inspection --, which is culminated into the filing a writ petition by the respondent which was allowed vide above referred judgme nt hence this leave to appeal. after hearing the parties and going through the available record it is crystal clear that the timber in question was reflected in the timber policy of which could not reflected in the latest policy of due to some dispute regarding the ownership of the same. this page hard fact is admitted by the report of the concerned staff who verified the same on the spot. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan, could not deny the hard fact about the inclusion of the timb er in question and how can he do so in the presence of the available record in the case file, for the sake of arguments it is further frankly and rightly conceded by the advocate general gilgit -baltistan, appearing on behalf of the petitioner that there is no record of in itiation of any inquiry by the concerned authority i.e. petitioner no. and against the remaining petitioner regarding illegally furnis hing false report pertaining to the timber in question. in the light of what has been stated above, i do not see any occasion to interfere into the just an equitable conclusion arrived at by the chief court gilgit -baltistan, in its detail -- and by maintaining the same this cpla no. is converted into an appeal and hereby dismissed being devoid of any substance what so ever. announced: yes no?