page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c.misc.no. c. misc no. in c.appeal. no. in cpla no. chief minister others petitioners. justice (rtd) muhammad khursheed khan respondent. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith the assistant advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the petitioners. asadullah khan advocate and on-record on behalf of respondent. date of hearing: ... date of delivery of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has been arisen out of the impugned judgment in writ petition no. dated .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. whereby, the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan accepted the writ petition of the respondent and eclared him as retired chairman chief court entitled for pension and all post retirement benefits and privileges as admissible to a chairman of chief court gilgit -baltistan ). the learned advocate general alongwith assistant advocate general submits that prior to establishment of chief court in the year the court of judicial commissioner was the apex court of northern areas. through a notification page no.aii. dated the 17th september, chief court was established by abolishing the court of judicial commissioner as apex court of gilgit -baltistan. the respondent and bps of district judiciary gilgit baltistan were appointed as members of the then chief court in bps-. ater on, through an establishment order the above referred notification and establishment order of the chief court was abolished, creating a new chief court under the new establishment order, which is reproduced as under: order to provide for the establishment of the chief court for northern areas whereas it is expedient to provide for the establishment of the chief court for northern areas and to provide for certain incidental and ancillary matter; now, therefore, the government of pakistan i please to make the following order: short title, extent and commencement: () this order may be called the northern areas chief court (establishment) order, () it extends to whole of the northern areas. () it shall come into force at once. definitions: in this order: (a) chairman means the chairman of the chief court, (b) chief court means member of the chief court established under this order; and (c) member member of the chief court. establishment of chief court: there shall be a chief court for northern areas. construction of chief court: the chief court shall consist of a chairman and two members. appointment of chairman and members: () the chairman and members shall be appointed by the federal government. () a person shall not be appointed the chairman unless he is or has been a () a person shall not be appointed a member unless he is not less than forty years of age and; (a) has for a period of for periods aggregating, not less than fifteen years practiced law as an advocate in the northern areas or in any part of pakistan; or page (b) has for a period of not less than fifteen years held a judicial office. retiring age: () subject to sub paragraph () the chairman or a member shall retire on attaining the age of sixty years. () a chairman who has been a () resignation and removal: the chairman or a member may resign his office by writing under his hand addressed to the federal government. () the federal government may remove the chairman or a member if the judic ial committee consisting of the secretary, ministry of law, kashmir affairs northern areas and states and frontier regions division and the chief executive northern areas reports that the chairman or, as the case may be a member is incapable of properly perfor ming the duties of this office by reason of physical or mental infirmity or has been guilty of misconduct. terms and conditions: the remuneration and other terms and conditio ns of service of the chairman and members shall be such as the federal government may from time to time, determine, and such terms and conditions as have not been provided for in this order and determined under this paragraph shall be the same as of a civil servant in equivalent grade scale. seat of the chief court: () the permanent seat of chief court shall, subject to sub -paragraph be at gilgit. () the chief court may from time to time sit at such other places as the chairman, with the approval of the federal government, may appoint. jurisdiction: () the chief court shall have the jurisdiction and exercise the powers vested in a high court only under any law applicable to the northern areas and shall not have jurisdiction save as in herein conferred on it. () the federal government may confer jurisdiction of the chief court in respect of such ot her matters as it may from, time to time, determine. transfer of chairman and members: the chairman and members shall be liable to serve anywhere within outside pakistan and in any post under the federal government, or any provincial government or local authority or a corporation or body set up or established by any such government. acting chairman: at any time when the office of the chairman is vacant or he is absent or unable to perform the functions of his office the most senior of the members shall act as the chairman. appointment of ad -hoc members: if at any time it is not possible for ant of quorum of members to hold or continue any sitting of the chief court the page chairman may in writing, with the approval of the federal government, require any district and sessions -hoc member for such period as may be necessary and while so attending an ad -hoc member shall have the same power and jurisdiction as a member. rules of procedure: subject to law and any order made by the federal government, the chief court may make rules regulating the practice and procedure of the court including the prescription of cases which may be disposed of by one or two the full court. explanation: in this paragraph member shall include chairman. registers, books, returns, statements and reports: the chief court shall keep such registers, books and accounts as may be necessary for transaction of its business. repeal and saving:- () subject to sub paragraph () the kashmir and northern areas division notification no. aii. dated the 17th september, is hereby repealed, and the chief court established thereunder is hereby abolished. () any judgment given, sentence or decree passe d, decision or order made by, or any appeal, suit, application, or other proceedings instituted for pending before, the chief court constituted under the notification referred to in sub -paragraph () shall be deemed to have been given, passed, made, or ins tituted before the chief court constituted under this order, and it shall not be necessary for the later court to rehear any evidence or any witness for the decision of any pending matter. he further contends that later on, in the year the government of pakistan through gazette notification part ii issued notification no.f. no. () -na-ii dated the 28th april, renamed the chairman and embers of the chief court northern areas as chief which is reproduced hereunder: to be published in the next gazette of pakista part -ii government of pakistan ministry of kashmir affairs and northern areas islamabad, the 28th april, notification no.f. no. () -na-ii this is to notify that with the enactment of northern areas governance order, on 15th december, the chairman and members of the chief court, northern areas have been renamed as chief in exercise of powers conferred on him as the competent authority, the prime minister has been pleased to accord approval to bring the chief page northern areas at par with their counterparts in the high court in azad jammu and kashmir for the purposes of pay and related monetary benefits w.e.f .. -sd- (muhammad akhtar khan deputy secretary the manager printing corporation of pakistan press stadium road karachi. copies to: the chief secretary, northern areas gilgit. the deputy accountant general pakistan revenues, gilgit. the supreme appellate court, northern areas, gilgit. the registrar northern areas chief court, gilgit with the advice to obtain copies of existing pay an related monetary bene fits of finance division, finance adviser ka na, government of pakistan, islamabad. ps to minister of ka na chairman northern areas, government of pakistan, islamabad. ps to secretary law, government of pakistan, islamabad. to be published in the next gazette of pakistabn part -ii government of pakistan ministry of kashmir affairs and northern areas islamabad, the 22nd november, notification no.f. no. () -na-ii in supersession of this division notification of even number 20th november, acting chairman northern areas chief court has retired from government service with effect from 13th november, on attaining the age of superannuation, in terms of nas chief court (establishment) second amendment0 order issued vide this division order of even number, dated 10th september, -sd- (abdul manaf khattak) deputy secretary (nas) the manager printing corporation of pakistan press university road, karachi. copies to: the chief secretary, nas, gilgit. registrar. nas chief court, gilgit. page officer concerned. the deputy agpr, sub, office, gilgit. ps to minister chief executive nas addl: secretary ka na division, islamabad. ps to secretary, law, islamabad. -sd- (sajid mian) section officer (na -ii) the learned a dvocate general gilgit -baltistan further contended that the respondent did not implead the necessary parties i.e. chairman gilgit -baltistan council, secretary kashmir affairs northern area and federal minister kashmir affairs northern area, who were competen authority for appointment of judges of the learned chief court while iling writ petition no. before the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. he also contends that the benefits given to the ex chairman of chief court (muzaffar husain malik by the competent forum i.e. the federal service tribunal islamabad vide judgment no. m.p.no. in appeal no. (r) cs dated .., not by the chief court gilgit -baltistan. secondly, and he is availing the pension benefits since his retirement. he also contends that the learned chief court gilgit baltistan did consider the relevant provision of law while passing the impugned judgment and the arguments of the petitioner have also not been considered thereto. while saying so, he relied upon reported judgments in case of west pakistan industrial page development corporation, karachi aziz qurashi scmr ), in case of chief personnel officer, pakistan railway headquarter, lahore another anjum farooq others scmr ), in case of mir ghaiz khan another chief executive minister kashmir affairs northern areas islam abad scmr ), in case of multiline associated ardeshair cowasjee others (plsd1995 sc ), in case of chourdhy muhammad saleem fazal ahmed and other scmr ), in case of grosvenor casino limited abdul malik badar -ud-din scmr ), in case of babar shah zad said akber another scmr ). the learned advocate general alongwith assistant advocate general further contends that the respondent being a civil servant in bps- has no locus standie to file writ petition and the learned chief court has wrongly entertained, adjudicated and decided the said writ petition despite having no jurisdiction. furthermore, the equal status of high court was given to the chief court in the year whereas the respondent retired on ... it was further substantiated by promulgation of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, he also contend that the doctrine of laches principle of estopple att ract barring the respondent to file writ petition before the learned chief court as the respondent remained silent for a considerable period of eight years and the same has not been considered by the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan while page passing the impugned judgment hence no tenable. he finally contends that the impugned judgment in writ petition no. dated .. is the result of misconception of law, misreading and non -reading of the material notification order and on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment. they submit that the respondent retired as acting chairman chief court gilgit baltistan (the then nas ), gilgit on .. attaining the age of superannuation years) in ter (second amendment order the respondent was allowed acting charge of the post of chairman gilgit -baltistan (the then nas) chief co urt vide notification no. f. -- dated ... they also submits that the respondent was not confirmed as cha irman chief court till his retirement because the respondent was being actively considered and summary was moved for respondent elevatio as member supreme appellate court. the summary was kept pending in the meantime the respondent retired as acting chairman chief court. the chairman chief court was given perks, privileges and pensionary benefits as admissible to a serving of high court na-ii- dated 8th june, whereas the members were given perks, privileges as to an officer of bps -. the former chairman he further submit that page although the respondent was approved by the prime minister of pakistan for elevation as member supreme appellate court but subsequently his approval was not notified and the respondent alongwith he further submit that the respondent as acting chairman was getting pay and allowances as admissible to the chairman. the respondent applied for the pension in bps at that time as the same was an option for him submit revised pension case as admissible to a he further submit that the respondent was constrained to apply for pension in bps as he was facing financial hardship he referred article of the constitution of islamic republic of pakistan wherein, the chief chief includes the he submit that the perusal of the above referred article reveals that the respondent was acting chairman, chief court, northern area meaning thereby the respondent was chairman chief court, as such, the respondent is entitle to get pension and other privileges as a while saying so he relied upon the reported cases i.e. i. scmr ii. scmr iii. scmr iv. pld sc page he finally submits that the impugned judgment in writ petition no. dated .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan is in accordance with law and no -interference is warranted in to it. we have heard the learned advocate general gilgit baltistan assisted by the learned assistant advo cate general as well as the learned counsels for the respondent at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned judgment as well as the case laws relied upon by both the learned counsel for the respective parties. the case laws referred by the learned advocate general are applicable and the case laws relied upon by the learned counsel for the respondent are distinguishable. admittedly, the respondent retired on .. whereas vide notification no. f.no. -na-ii dated ... the chairman and members of the chief court northern area have been renamed as chief -baltistan chief court. subsequently, under article () of the gilgit baltistan (empowerment self govern ance) order, the remuneration other terms and condition of service of chief in view of the above, we accept the appeal and set as ide the impugned judgment in writ petition no. dated .. the learned chief cou rt gilgit -baltistan. these were the reasons for our short ... page the appeal is allowed. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?