page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan, gilgit. chief judge. judge. civil appeal. no. in cpla. no. aziz-ur-rehman petitioner. muhammad ishaque chief engineer others respondents. present:- johar ali khan advocate- on-record for the petitioner. date of hearing: ... order. this leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court wherein the civil misc. no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed in limine, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case was finally heard today on ... the brief facts of the case are that the petitioner filed a contempt petition under article of gilgit-baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, before the learned chief court against the respondent for violation of status quo order granted on .. by the learned chief court. upon hearing the said petition was dismissed being meritless. page the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that during adjudication of the writ petition no. filed by th petitioner in the learned chief court, the respondent were dir ected to maintain the status quo vide .. till further order. he also submits that during pendency of the said writ petition, the respondent in violation of the status quo granted on .. vide letter no. e.-()rre dated .. and the subsequent letter dated .. changed the disputed project by inviting tenders whereafter prequalified contractors firms. he further submits that the petitioner being aggrieved filed contempt petition under article of the gilgit- baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, against the respondent for willful violation of the orders of the learned chief court. upon hearing the same contempt petition was dismissed vide impugned .. observing that the respondent have not violated its orders. per learned counsel the learned chief court while passing the impugned order misconceived its own order and dismissed the civil misc. no. therefore, the same is not sustainable and liable to set aside. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil misc. no. the learned chief court. the perusal of the case file reveals that status quo was granted on .. by the learned page chief court but the same was not extended on the next date of hearing i.e. ... the learned counsel for the petitioner cou ld not point out any illegality infirmity in the impugned order. further the learned chief court itself has to decide as to whether its directions orders have been violated or otherwise? in view of the above, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. the leave is refused accordingly. consequently, the impugned .. in civil misc. no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?