page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. imran hussain muhammad hussain khomer gilgit respondent. present: the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general and -on-record for the petitioners. rehmat ali advocate -on-record for respondent. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the said writ petition filed by the respondent was accepted by the directing the petitioner to regularize the respondent with all back benefits with effect from june, the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard toda y. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent was initially appointed as helper (work charge) in the office of water page power department gilgit vide office ... later on, the federal government approved the summary for one time regularization of work charge staff being paid from maintenance budget fund. the petitioner no. i.e. the secretary water power gilgit -baltistan in pursuance of the said approval const ituted a committee for regularization of work charge staff agains newly created posts in the said department vide letter no. swp () dated ... the aforesaid committee conducted detailed scrutiny verification of the work charge employees. after completion the said scrutiny examination, the cases of work charge incumbents recommended for regularization with effect from .. and he respondent was declared most junior employee, therefore, he has not been regularized. the respondent being aggrieved, filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court contending therein that his name was appeared at serial no. of the list prepared by the petitioner for regularization of contingent paid staff which upon hearin was allowed. the learned advocate general submits that the respondent has no locus standi to file the writ petition in the learned chief court. he also submits that the summary for regularization was moved to higher authorities for one time regulariz ation of existing work charge staff who were working in the department for decades and whose list was submitted for regularization. per learned advocate general, the said list alongwith page summary was not for new comers fresh employees who were employed on daily wages or on fixed pay. he adds that the respondent was among the said employees who have been paid out of development schemes and not from regular maintenance. he further submits that the learned chief court did not consider the aforementioned fac ts while passing the impugned .. and the same is not sustainable. he prays that the said impugned judgment may graciously be set aside. on the ther hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment pass ed by the learned chief court. he contends that the respondent has been discriminated by the petitioner as he has been placed at seri al no. out of incumbents recommended by the regularization committee. per learned counsel, the petitioner have no option but to admit that the name of the respondent is clearly reflected in serial no. of the final list of the regularization committee. he further contends that the respondent should have been regularized alongwith other incumbents of the department. he submits that the learned chief court has rightly accepted the writ petition of the respondent. he prays that the impugned judgment the learned chief court may pleased be maintained to meet the ends of justice. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the materials on record and gone through the impugned judgment the learned chief court. the page careful perusal of the case file transpires that the final list alongwit summary was not for new comers fresh employees who were employed on daily wages or on fixed pay and the respondent was among the said employees who have been paid out of development schemes and not from regular maintenance. we are in agreement with th contentions raised by the learned advocate general. in our considered view, the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned judgment which is not tenable in law. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an app eal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is set aside. the respondent may approach the competent court of law for redressal of their grievances, if he advised. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.