page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan civil review petition no. chief judge. judge. zafar iqbal md natco gilgit -baltistan. petitioner. muhammad naseem abdul sadiq basin khari, tehsil district gilgit. respondent. review petition under order of supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan rules read with article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance order) under section cpc and order rule cpc whereby the learned division bench of this august court in cross appeal filed by respondent has maintained the judgment the judgment decree dated --, the learned civil while the honorable division bench has dismissed the appeal filed by petitioner and disposed of both the cross appeals by a single --. present: date of hearing: -- order cj. the petitioner seeks review of the -- rendered in a civil appeal arising out of a civil suit, in which decree the court of first instance was reversed by the first appellate court vide judgm ent dated -- and judgment of appellate court was maintained by chief court in second appeal vide --. the learned counsel for the petitioner contended that this court without taking into consideration the material evidence av ailable on record, restored the decree of trial court, which was not otherwise sustainable in law. he submitted that letter dated --, issued by the controller of examination university of peshawar by virtue of which the letter dated --, of he university of peshawar declaring the b.a. degree of respondent as genuine on the basis of which decree was passed was cancelled and this important fact has been ignored by the court, while deciding the main appeal. the learned counsel submitted that let ter dated -- was produced in appeal before the chief court which was treated as part of the record and if the same would have been taken into consideration, the result of the appeal would definitely be different. the contention has no substances. the letter dated --, was not brought in evidence from official custody in proper manner at any stage rather for the first time an attempt was made by the petitioner to make it part of record of page appeal before the chief court, therefore the same could not be read in evidence and also there was no mention of it in the judgment of the chief court. the law is that an official document which is not produced at proper stage in evidence from official custody in proper manner cannot be considered as part of vidence and judicial record. the official letter under discussion was produced by the petitioner in appeal before the chief court and without examination of the controller of examination and providing opportunity of cross examination of respondent, it was not possible for the court to give effect to the letter in question which had otherwise no evidently value. be that as it may, the petitioner for the first time relying upon the letter in question in this review petition has sought review of the judgment, whereas the law is that a new ground cannot be allowed to be taken in review petition on the basis of fact which was not brought before the court at proper stage. the learned counsel has not argued and other point. this review petition being without any ubstance is accordingly dismissed. chief judge. judge.