page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit rana muhammad shameem, chief judge. judge. judge. civil appeal no. in civil leave to appeal no. mst. hoor naz matron (bs -) district headquarter hospital gilgit. petitioner. medical superintendent district headquarter hospital gilgit. deputy commissioner collector gilgit. home secretary gilgit -baltistan. secretary service gad gilgit -baltistan. respondent defendants. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order read with enabling articles of gilgit baltistan supreme appellate court rules against the impugned judgment -- learned chief court gilgit baltistan in writ petition no. whereby the chief court gilgit -baltistan dismissed the writ petition holding the same meritless maintaining impugned -- court of district -- civil present: mir ikhlaq hussain, advocate on behalf of the petitioner. advocate general, gilgit -baltistan, for the respondents. advocate on record. date of hearing: --. page judgment javed iqbal, hoor naz against the judgment order the division bench of chief court gilgit baltistan, vide --. feeling aggrieved by the order of chief court gilgit -baltistan, knock the door of this apex court through c.p.l.a. no. for justice, law and equity. resume of the case in hand is that the petitioner appellant had joined regular government service in the post of head nurse in the year in the year may the petitioner was promoted to the post of matron bs having no personal residence at gilgit and being female empl oyee having a post of emergency attendance applied for allotment of a government quarter under the poll of health department. the then medical superintendent gilgit allotted quarter vide no. mg on --, but did not deliver possession to the petition er and let the quarter remained in the possession of someone else and the petitioner waited for delivery of possession but the quarter was not delivered therefore the petitioner again approached medical superintendent gilgit (respondent no.) for allotment of a vacant quarter. respondent no. was pleased to allot quarter no. md vide no. dgh dated --. after the said allotment petitioner invested on maintenance of the of the quarter in question out of her personal resources as it was not worth human use due to deterio rated condition and soon after the renovation and maintenance respondent no. page cancelled withdraw the allotment order vide his impugned cancellation order no. dhq dated -- against which the petitioner filed the suit in the court of civil the learned trial court dismissed the suit vide impugned -- which was impugned efore the court of learned district which was also dismissed. that petitioner filed writ petition before --. the learned chief court without inviting calling for comments of respondent dismissed the writ petition vide its impugned -- holding the writ petition meritless. the impugned order of chief court is based on misconception, misunderstanding, extra hurry and hasty, non -considerate, hence this leave to appeal on the following inter alia other grounds. we have heard the arguments of both sides counsel pro and contra. the learned advocate mir ikhlaq hussain on behalf of the petitioner plaint iff submits that the petitioner filed a civil suit against the defendant before civil court gilgit, the defendant respondents, filed an application under order rule civil procedure code, and in application under order rule civil procedure code the defendant respondents, urge that the plaintiff petitioner has no cause of action against the defendant respondents, the petitioner plaintiff replied this application and negate the arguments of the defendant respondents, the petitioner plaintiff counsel urge that, if the plaintiff petitioner, has no cause page of action against the defendant respondents, the matter will be decided on merits and disclosed in her plaint cause of action in para no. of the plaint. for convenient we reproduce the order rule c.p.c: rejection of plaint, -- the plaint shall be rejected in the following cases: (a) where it does not disclose a cause of action; (b) where the relief claimed is under -valued, and the plaintiff, on being required by the court to correct the valuation within a time to be fixed by the court, fails to do so; (c) where the relief claimed is properly valued, but the plaint is written upon paper insufficiently stamped, and the plaintiff, on being required by the co urt to supply the requisite stamp -paper within a time to be fixed a time by the court, fails to do so; (d) where the suit appears from the statement in the plaint to be barred by any law. from perusal of above order of cpc it transpires that, plaintiff petitioner, has clearly disclosed a cause of action, in her plaint. where the plaint does not disclose cause of action, it has to be rejected and for this purpose only the plaint is to be looked and nothing else. the written statement cannot be looked and nothing else. from the perusal of plaint of plaintiff, it transpires that the plaintiff has disclosed cause of action, the respondent filed application under order rule c.p.c, urge that the plaintiff has no locus standi to file this suit in other words, plaintiff have no availability of cause of action, which is to be decided on merits. page for what has been discussed above this petition is converted into appeal and same is allowed, the impugned orders judgments of the learned lower courts are set a -side, and remitted back the case to the trial court, to decide the matter on merits. parties bear their own cost. the petition is converted into appeal and allowed. case remanded. announced: --.