page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no rozi kha (late) aziz through legal heirs: muhammad ali. muhammad ayaz rozi khan village bolin tehsil district astore. petitioner defendants. mst. shah jahan hamza khan village bolin tehsil and district astore. respondent plaintiff. rant of leave to judgment decree dated .., chief court gilgit -baltistan whereby he ismissed the revision petition no. by upholding the judgment decree of learned additiona district .., judgment decree ated .. the learned civil by granting lea ve to appeal same may kindly be accepte by setting aside the impugned judgment decree dated .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan, judgment dec ree dated .. additional district judgment decree dated .. the learned civil of plaintiff respondent to meet the ends of justice. present: senior advocate for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .the learned senior counsel for the petitioner contended that a civil suit bearing page no. was filed by the petitioner before the learned civil district astore for declaration of the title and for consequential relief. upon hearing, the learned trial court district astore vide .., decreed the same in favour of the plaintiff respondent to the extent of anals land out of kanals and marlas. being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with th order decree dated .., the learned civil the petitioner filed civil first appeal no. in the court of the learne additional district session .., the learned trial court district astore. he further contended that the learned additional district through his .., dismissed the appeal and maintained the impugned .., the learned civil the learned counsel submitted that both the concurrent findings of the courts below was a result of non -appraising of evidence on record, ence, the same are liable to set aside and not tenable. the learned counsel for the petitioner further submitted that feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the concurrent findings of both the courts below, a civil revision no. was filed by the petitioner defendant before the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan. upon hearing the parties, the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan vide order date .., maintained the page judgments of both the courts below i.e. judgment decree dated .., the learned civil .. the learned additional district the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner further contended that the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan has passed the impugned judgment .., while misreading the evidence and misconceiving the facts and important legal points and ignored the documents produced by the parties, therefore, the impugned judgment is liable to set aside as the same is not maintainable. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the con current findings of three courts are based on solid legal and factual grounds, therefore, the same be maintained, being well founded and well reasoned. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioners, perused the record of case file, gone through the impugned .. pa ssed by the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan in civil revision petition no. as well as the .., the learned additional district and judgment decree dated .., the learned civil district astor in civil suit no. in our considered view all the ju dgments decrees of the three courts below are well reasoned page as no infirmity and illegality was pointed out by the learned counsel for the petitioner. the petition was consequently converted into an appeal and dismissed. these are the reasons for the short ... the appeal is dismissed. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?