page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. late shah muhammad others petitioners. force commander, fcna jutial gilgit others respondent s. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: .. order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal has arisen out the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court whereby the civil revision filed by the petitioner was dismissed by upholding the concurrent findings of the learned courts below, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. the brief facts of the case are that the plaintiff filed civil suit no. in the court of learned for declaration and perpetual injunction contending therein that he is the real owner of the suit land measuring marla under khasra no. page vide mutati on no. on the basis of allotment .. and consequent noc no. pc dated ... the plaintiff also contended that he has made certain improvements on the said lands by erecting boundary wall etc while investing handsome a mount thereto. per the averments of the plaintiff petitioner the cancellation of allotment of the suit land by the respondent vide letter no. dated .. is void and illegal. upon hearing the said suit was dismissed being meritless vide judgme nt dated ... the said judgment of the learned trial court was upheld up to the learned chief court. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that although there are three concurrent findings of the learned courts below against the petit ioners yet the courts below failed to appreciate the evidence and to interpret the law while passing the impugned judgments. he submits that the petitioner are the owners of the said suit land which was allotted to them by the respondent and they are in possession of the said land. he also submits that the petitioner have developed the disputed land by spending huge amount. per learned counsel, the cancellation of the allotment order by the respondent is illegal, without lawful authority and against the allotment law rules. he prays that the impugned judgment of the learned chief court and the concurrent findings of the learned courts below may graciously be set aside by allowing this leave to appeal. page on the other hand, the learned couns el for the respondent supports the impugned judgment and the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. he contends that admittedly the father of the petitioner was a civilian who had been allotted kanals marla land on the basis of his blindn ess disability. later on, he again applied for the disputed land measuring marla by concealing the previous allotment. consequently, he remained succeeded in obtaining the allotment of the disputed land through misrepresentation and fraudulently. per le arned counsel, the respondent upon knowing the above fraudulent act of the petitioner, the allotment of the disputed land was cancelled vide .. and ... whereafter the said land has been allotted to the legal heirs of the martyr of the northern light infantry (nli) regiment. the petitioner have no cause of action to file the suit against the respondents. he contends that the impugned judgment has been passed in accordance with law and facts of the case, therefore, the same may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment as well as the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. admittedly, the disputed land was the property of northern light infantry (nli) regiment which was allotted to the petitioner and the same allotment was recalled by the respondent due to the misrepresentation and fraud on the part of the petitioners. in our considered view, the impugned judgment page is well reasoned, therefore, no indulgence is warranted into it. further, the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality infirmity in the said impugned judgment. in view of the a bove discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.