page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal. no. in cpla no. ehsanullah others petitioner s. chief secretary gilgit -baltistan others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition filed the respondent no. was disposed off as the impugned office order no. secy (r)-admin dated .. was withdrawn vide .. by the respondent no. to the petitioner being aggrieved by filed this leave to appeal as there adjustment order was withdrawn by the respondents. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case is heard today. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner were performing their duties with professional zeal page zest in various cadres under the department of excise and taxatio gilgit -baltistan. later on, they were promoted in bps and they were drawing their salaries uninterruptedly. he also submits that the respondent no. filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court which was disposed off on ... per learned counsel during the pendency of the said writ petition the official respondent withdrawn the promotion order of the petitioner due to which the petitioner have been affected adversely and their service rights have been disturbed. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned .. in writ petition no. which is not tenable and liable to be set aside. on the other hand, the learned advocate general supports the impugned order date .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court which is well reasoned and well founded and no interference is warranted into it. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record the case file and gone through the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. admittedly, the petitioner have been adversely affected by the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court as their promotion were withdrawn by the respondents. the petitioner can not even file a service appeal in page the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal due to in field of the said judgment. in view of the above dis cussions, we allow this appeal. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is set aside. the writ petition no. deems to consider pending adjudication. the case is remanded back the learned chief court to hear the parties afresh and decide it in its own merits in accordance with law. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.