page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. rupani foundation through vc ghulam tahir having office at university road gilgit. petitioner. provincial government others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition filed by the petitioner was dismissed being meritless, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that an organization namely mohenjoz cl aiming to be the pakistan first ever market place working for providing facility to the pakistani artisans especially women artisan in terms of opening of their stores, displaying products networking with national international buyers, promotional sup port, shipment and receiving international page payment using paypal facility on site. on invitation dated .. to the petitioner which is a non-governmental organization (ngo) working as an organization under aga khan development network to participate in the event titled centaurus arts and cultural exhibition at islamabad to establish its stalls of artisans, women artisans, indigenous crafts, antique products, gemstones, jewelry and marble mosaic. the petitioner while accepting the invitation decided to take part in the said exhibition and nominated some representatives with value added gems and mineral products for attending the exhibition. on .. the representatives of the petitioner alongwith the its packed material consisted rings and ot her polished materials and gems containing packets whe reached at bassari check post. the police intercepted them and took the material in possession without showing any cogent reason. the respondent neither prepared memo of the seizure of items nor any recovery for seizing the confiscating articles taken in possession was prepared. the action of the respondent is illegal and against the principle of natural justice. the organization is non -profitable organization acting to create income opportunity through skill development all over gilgit baltistan especially women skill development for last more than years. the petitioner trained more than people in the skill of gems cutting and polishing in training centers. the action taken by the respondent is not only against the aims and objects of the page petitioner rather was to create hurdle in promotion of gems potential at gilgit -baltistan. the learned counsel for he petitioner submits that the petitioner is a non-governmental organization (ngo) which is encouraging, transporting and prompting the culture of this area in all over the pakistan. he also submits that certain items were brought within the region i.e. ri ngs etc. from the local area which do not fall under the definition of smuggling. he further submits that the petitioner was invited by an organization namely mohenjoz in order to promote the minerals and gems potential of gilgit baltistan in national an international market. per learned counsel, the respondent with the assistance of local police have illegally intercepted the goods in question which was being transported within gilgit -baltistan. the respondent after taking into possession the articles in question, did not register criminal case against the petitioner which was mandatory in the eye of law. he submits that the articles were importable and the seizure is illegal and without lawful authority. the petitioner filed an application against th action of the respondent before respondent no. i.e. the chief secretary, gilgit -baltistan but the same remained unattended. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the illegal seizure of the aforementioned items, was constrained to file writ petition in he learned chief court. upon hearing it was dismissed vide impugned judgment. per learned counsel, the learned chief court fell in error by observing that the petitioner has page violated the northern areas mining concession rules, he submits that the impugned judgment the learned chief court is the result of misconception of law and misreading non reading of the facts of the case. he prays that the impugned judgment may graciously be set aside being not tenable in law. on the other hand, the learned advocate general supports the impugned judgment. he contends that the petitioner, no doubt, is a non- governmental organization (ngo) working in social welfare side but its activities are against the law of the land are not permitted. the petitioner with the pretext of the exhibition was trying to smuggle out the precious stones from gilgit -baltistan to down country. per learned advocate general, when the police deputed at bassari check post, seized the items in quest ion, no one come forward to claim the ownership of the said articles. he submits that the petitioner claimed ownership of the said articles belatedly in order to save itself from criminal prosecution. he further contends that an attempt to smuggle the said articles was made by the petitioner to down country which was foiled by the law enforcing agency. the petitioner has admittedly, no licenc of mining to excavate gem stones in this region. he submits that the learned chief ourt has rightly dismissed the writ petition of the petitioner being meritless, hence, the same is required to be maintained. we heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the page impug ned judgment. in our considered view, the impugned judgment is well reasoned. further, the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any infirmity in the impugned judgment. in view of the above discussions, we dismiss this appeal. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.