page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, registry branch skardu. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. fida trading company through haji fida muhammad, managing director, naya bazar skardu petitioner. government of pakistan through secretary defence and others respondents. present: the deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit -baltistan alongwith naib subedar mazhar hussain road maintenance battalion danyore camp, fwo gilgit for respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. passed in civil first appeal no. by the learned chief court wherein the appeal filed the petitioner was dismissed by maintaining the judgment decree of the learned civil the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and he case was finally heard today. page briefly the facts of the case are that the petitioner filed a civil suit no. in the cour of the learned civil kilometer road from kundus mouth to siachin sector on the basis of labour supply agreement vide agreement dated .. and .. between the respective parties. later on terms and conditions altered and it was agreed that the payment shall be made on the basis of work done. the work on the site completed in the year under the said terms conditions resultantly a some of s. ,, (rs. million) has been paid to the petitioner by the respondents. the remaining amount as claimed by the petitioner has not been paid by the respondent no. to in violation of the agreed terms and conditions. consequently, the petitio ner constrained to file the civil suit in the court of learned civil -ii. as per averments of the petitioner issues were framed by the learned trial court and the main issues have also been proved in favour of the petitioner, however, the sai suit upon hearing was dismissed vide .., on the sole ground of cause of action. the petitioner feeling aggrieved filed cfa no. which upon hearing was also dismissed vide impugned .. on the basis of ack of evidence by declaring the judgment of the learned trial court in accordance with law. earlier to this the learned chief court vide .. directed page the plaintiff petitioner to amend the said suit into recovery suit which was acted u pon by the petitioner accordingly. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner fully proved his case by producing and adducing oral as well as documentary evidence in support of its claim. the learned trial court failed to appreciate the same and fell in error in dismissing the suit by holding that the petitioner plaintiff has no cause of action to file the suit against the respondent defendants. per learned counsel the chief court instead of disposing off the first appeal in accordance with the provisions of order rule cpc, arbitrarily and summarily dismissed it beyond the pleadings and record of the case. he further submits that in case the issue no. i.e. with regard to the existence of cause of action is proved in favour of the petitioner, the nature an status of the suit would have been changed altogether but the learned trial court failed to resolve the same. the learned appellate court has also failed to resolve the issue no. as well. per learned counsel for the petitioner both the courts below fel in error while deciding the disputed questions of fact. consequently, the impugned .. the learned chief court as well as the ..2011in civil suit no. (old no. learned trial court are not sustainable as a result of misreading and non -appreciation of evidence and material on record. he prays that the impugned order judgment the courts below be set aside by remanding back the page case to the learned first appellate court fo disposal of appeal on merit to secure the ends of justice. on the other hand, the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit -baltistan supports the concurrent findings of the two courts below. he contends that the respondent have alrea dy made payment to the petitioner as per agreement for the construction of the said road and there is nothing payable to the petitioner by the respondents. the agreement and the payment on the basis of work done is past and closed transaction which can not be re -opened. he also contends that the respondent not only made all payments as per agreement but also provided explosives, detonators and cement etc to the petitioner for completion of the road project. he further contends that the claim for remaining amount by the petitioner is baseless and uncalled for. admittedly the petitioner had failed to produce any evidence to support his claim except two witnesses i.e. one was his driver and the other was his mason who may be termed as interested witnesses. pe learned deputy attorney general the petitioner produced certain fake and fabricated documents in support of his claim which were not considered by the courts below. he also contends that no corroborative evidence was produced by the petitioner in suppor of his claim. per learned deputy attorney general the learned counsel for the petitioner, otherwise, could not point out any illegality, irregularity and infirmity in the concurrent findings of the courts below as such interference into it is not warrant ed. page we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case and gone through the concurrent findings of both the courts below. in our considered view, the learned counsel for the petitioner could not poi nt out any illegality, irregularity, infirmity, misreading or non -appreciation of evidence in the order judgment of the two courts below. we convert this petition into an appeal and is dismissed. consequent thereto, the impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court as well as the .. in civil suit no the learned civil judge, first class skardu are affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.