page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan, gilgit. chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla. no akber shah son of ghulam shah and others petitioners. deputy commissioner collector district hunza-nagar others respondents. civil review no. in under objection. no deputy commissioner hunza-nagar others petitioners. akber shah others respondents. civil misc. no. in civil appeal no. in cpla. no deputy commissioner hunza-nagar others .petitioners. akber shah others respondents. present:- rehmat ali advocate- on-record for the petitioner in civil appeal and for the respondent in civil appeal no. and civil review no. the advocate general alongwith on-record on behalf of the respondent in civil appeal no. and for the petitioner in civil review no. and civil appeal no. date of hearing: ... date of announcement of judgment:-... page judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj ..the civil appeal no. filed by the petitioner has arisen out of the impugn ed .. the learned chief court in civil first appeal no. whereby the appeal of the petitioner was partially allowed by directing the respondent to pay compensation at the rate of rs. per kanal for the uncultivated land wit compound interest on the compensation amount w.e.f july, till realization of the amount as prayed for. whereas civil review no. has been directed against the impugned .. this court wherein the leave to appeal was refused being barred by time while the civil appeal no. in cpla no. has been preferred against the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil revision of the petitioner was dismissed in limine being not maintainable. the petitioner being aggrieved filed these petitions for leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case was finally heard on .. and the judgment was reserved. since the petitions appeals review have arisen out of the same dispute, therefore, these are decided thr ough this common judgment. briefly the facts of the case in civil appeal no. titled akber shah and others deputy commissioner hunza-nagar others, are that the respondent acquired lands page of the petitioner for construction of road from hussain abad to khan abad hunza in the year later on the respondent no. prepared award of compensation vide award no. dk- -hunza dated ... according to the said award the respondent no. assessed determined the rate of the compensation rs. per kanal for cultivated land, rs. per kanal for uncultivated land, rs. for big tree, rs. for per medium tree and rs. for per small tree respectively. the petitioner received the said compensation amount on march, the petitioner being aggrieved filed reference petition under section of the land acquisition act for enhancement of rates of lands, trees, houses and other fixture which upon hearing was dismissed vide judgment decree date ... the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed civil first appeal no. before the learned chief court. upon hearing the said first appeal was partially allowed by enhancing the rates of compensation of uncultivated land from rs. to rs. including compound interest while other claims were declined, hence, this leave to appeal. the concise facts of the case i.e. the deputy commissioner collector hunza-nagar others akber shah others, in review petition no. are that the petitioner filed leave to appeal no. befor this apex court against the short .. the learned chief court. this court vide impugned page .. refused the leave to appeal being barred by time, he nce, this review leave to appeal. likewise the case in civil appeal no. in cpla no. titled deputy commissioner hunza-nagar others akber shah and others, is also an identical nature as of the above petitions, therefore, the same is to be decided together by this order. brief ly an execution petition no. filed by the respondent in the court of learned additional district -nagar which upon hearing was allowed vide judgment ... the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed revision petition no. before the learned chief court which was dismissed vide impugned .. by declaring the same not maintainable, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner in civil appeal no. submits that the petitioner have fully proved their claim through documentary as well as oral evidence regarding the market value of the land, trees, houses and other fixture at village khan abad and mayoon at the time of acquisition of land in the year he also submits that the learned referee court as well as the learned chief court failed to appreciate the material evidence on record while deciding the revision appeals. per learned counsel for the petitioner the market value of land in the year was rs. per kanal and the rate of trees was rs. and rs. for per medium big trees respectively. he submits page that the learned chief court was duty bound to grant the compound interest at the rate of per annum on the amount of award since the date of acquisition of land i.e. july, up to .. under the mandatory provisions of the land acquisition act. he adds that prior to this the reference petition of the petitioner was granted as prayed for by the then district later on the same judgment was set aside by remanding the case back to the learned referee court on the sole ground of jurisdiction. he submits that the copying branch of the learned chief court has yet not provided the copy of the detail judgment stating that the learned chief court has not delivered detail judgment. per learned counsel the short order passed on .. and the petitioner filed application fo obtaining the certified copy of judgment on the same date. he submits that the petitioner received copy of short order decree on ... he finally submits that the learned chief court fell in error by refusing the others reliefs vide impugned .., hence, the same is not tenable and liable to set asi de in the interest of justice. on the other hand, the learned advocate general contends that the petitioner have been paid full compensation of cultivated and uncultivated lands, houses, trees, cattle sheds and other structures according to the prevailing market rate. he also contends that the petitioner have received the compensation thereto without protest but later on they have managed to insert the page word under protest in collusion with the revenue staff. he further contends that the learned chief court at the time of hearing had announced in open court regarding partial acceptance of the appeal for granting rs. (rupees fifty five thousand only) per kanal only whereas vide impugned short .. it was added for payment as compound interest till realization of the amount which is not tenable in law. per learned advocate general the learned chief court failed to consider the facts on record that the petitioner could not prove the reference through impartial evidence except adducing witnesses from the co-villagers who were themselves parties beneficiaries of the case and claimers thereto. the reference so filed by the petitioner is baseless and based on malafidy. he adds that the learned chief court has no jurisdiction to award the compound interest as no loss was caused to the petitioner by the respondent through widening of the exiting road on the demand of the petitioner wherein no question of forcible compulsory acquisition arose. he finally contends that the appeal of the petitioner may very graciously be dismissed by setting aside the impugned .. the learned chief court and the judgment decree dated .. the learned district land acquisition the learned advocate general with reference to the review petition contends that the learned chief court partially allowed the appeal of the respondent by a short order and the page detail judgment has to follow. due to filing of execution petition by the respondent before the learned trial court and because of hard pressing directions of the executing court, the petitioner filed cpla no. before this apex court on the basis of short order. he contends that for the above reasons i.e. waiting for de tail judgment which was required to be issued by the learned chief court which was not issued till to date. the impugned short judgment, otherwise was passed without jurisdiction for granting illegal compound interest he also contends that the delay was caused beyond control waiting for the detail judgment. the delay was neither intentional nor deliberate. he prays that this review petition may pleased be allowed. he contends that during pendency of civil appeal no. in cpla. no. filed by the deputy commissioner hunza-nagar others akber shah others, the respondent filed an execution petition before the learned referee additional district -nagar which upon hearing was allowed by directing the petitioner for early arrangement for payment of rs. which was assailed by the petitioner before the learned chief court through civil revision no. the learned chief court vide impugned .. dismissed the said civil revision of the petitioner in limine declaring the same not maintainable, hence, this leave to appeal. he further contends that the respondent had filed an execution petition before the learned referee district and session -nagar for execution of page the impugned .. the learned chief court mentioning therein wrong and incorrect figures. he adds that the petitioner filed objections and prayed for the rejection of the said execution petition which was premature and against the facts and law but the objections of the petitioner were turned down vi de ... he reiterated that the petitioner fil ed revision petition before the learned chief court which was also dismissed vide ... he further contends that both the learned courts below fell in error while allowing the said execution petition, therefore, the .. and .. the learned courts below are not sustainable and liable to set aside. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court, the order da ted .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court as well as the impugned .. of thi apex court and the .. in execution petition no. the learned referee additional district -nagar .. in civil suit reference no. the learned district in view of the above discussions, we agree with the contentions raised by the learned advocate general. the civil page appeal no. in cpla. no. filed by akber shah others deputy commissioner collector hunza-nagar others is dismissed and the impugned judgment .. in civil first appeal the learned chief court gilgit-baltistan is set aside. similarly, the review petition no. titled the deputy commissioner collector hunza-nagar others akber shah others is allowed. consequently, the civil appeal no. in cpla. no. is also allowed. the impugned .. the learned chief court gilgit-baltistan is set aside. consequent thereto the .. passed in civil revision no. by the learned chief court and the .. passed in execution petition no. by th learned executing court, hunza-nagar are also set aside. resultantly, we affirm and maintain the .. in civil suit reference no. the learned district .. the learned collector gilgit being well reasoned well founded. all the above petitions appeals and civil review are disposed off in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?