page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. abdul rauf son of safidullah kashrote district gilgit. respondent. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith deputy advocate general for the petitioners. johar ali advocate -on-record for the petitioner no. muhammad abbas khan advocate -on-record on behalf of the respondent. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: -... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has been directed against the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal whereby the service appeal filed by the respondent was accepted by declaring the respondent enior to petitioner no. to by directing the petitioner no. to to issue fresh seniority list. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the impugned judgment, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case was heard on ... page briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent and petitioner no. to were appointed as assistant sub inspectors (asis) in police department northern areas vide office order no. igp-() dated ... according to the appointment order the name of the respondent was at serial no. while the names of the petitioner no. were at serial no. respectively. the respondent and petitione rs were joined their services as asis on the same date i.e. ... later on, a tentative seniority list of asis was circulated on ... according to the said seniority list the name of the respondent was placed at serial no. while the names the petitioner no to appeared at serial no. respectively. the seniority list dated .. was not challenged by the respondent to and it remained intact till whereafter, on .. a fresh seniority list was issued. a ccording to the said seniority list the respondent was declared junior to petitioner no. to placing his name at serial no. and the names of the petitioner no. to at serial no. accordingly. being aggrieved the respondent on .. preferred a departmental the said seniority list which was accepted by the competent authority. the respondent was intimated vide office order no. igp dated .. that he has been declared senior to the petitioner no. to later on, again a fresh seniority list was issued vide office order no. igp () dated .. stating therein that sub page inspector police namely jan muhammad and attaullah etc has submitted applications by raising objections that in the existing seniority list of sips, they have been assigned junior positions to some sips while by virtue of date of birth they carry senior positions being appointees of the same date. the competent auth ority constituted a committee for determination of seniority of upper subordinates of police department. on the recommendation of the chairman of the committee again a fresh seniority list was issued vide office order no. igp -() dated .. resultantly the respondent was declared junior to petitioner no. to the respondent assailed the said seniority list issued on .., through a departmental appeal which was dismissed vide office order no. igp -() dated .. on rejection of the said departmental appeal, the respondent on .. filed a writ petition before the learned chief court which remained subjudice till establishment of gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. after establishment of the gilgit -baltist an service tribunal, the writ petition was abated and the respondent filed service appeal no. which upon hearing was accepted by declaring the respondent senior to petitioner no. to and the petitioner no. to were directed to issue fres seniority list. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the impugned judgment of the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal filed this leave to appeal. page the learned advocate general alongwith submits that the seniority list issued on .. was prepared due to mistake and misunderstanding which was later on recalled being violative of the relevant rules and a fresh seniority list was issued vide office order igp-() dated ... they also submit that the said seniority list was framed according to rule .() of the police rules which is applicable for determination of seniority of upper subordinates of police department. per learned counse ls, the said seniority list is the final seniority and the respondent has been declared junior to petitioner no. to the claim of seniority by the respondent on the basis of order of merit has no weight because according to that list one asi ali khan was also junior to the respondent. asi ali khan was promoted one year before the respondent and the promotion order of ali khan asi was not challenged by the respondent. they further submit that subsequently, the competent authority issued a fresh seniori ty list after obtaining guidelines from punjab police as well as cabinet division islamabad. according to which the petitioner no. declared senior to the respondent on the basis of age factor vide office ... they submit that the impugned .. in service appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal is not sustainable being not well reasoned and well founded, therefore, the same is required to be set aside. page on the other hand, .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. he contends that the respondent is senior to petitioner no. to as his nam stands at serial no. in the merit list. similarly, the respondent is also senior to the petitioner by length of service. the respondent has been declared senior in the seniority list issued on ... per learned counsel, it is on record that the said seniority list remained intact till and gained finality as it was not challenged before any competent forum court of law by petitioner no. to within the stipulated period. the petitioner no. entertained the objections raised by the petitioner no. to after lapse of ten () years which was barred by time. the respondent no. have no jurisdicti on to review the seniority list, after delay of considerable period of years. he submits that the civil servants silence inaction would amount to a cquiescence. no objection have been taken to seniority list which beco me past and closed transaction. he prays that impugned .. the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal may graciously be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment which transpires that seniority list issued and circulated vide no. igp -() dated .. was framed under civil servants act, which was applicable to page the civil servants other than police department while the seniority of upper subordinates of police department was to be determined in accordance with ule .() of police rule likewise, the appointment order of the respondent and the petitioner no. to also indicates that seniority of the officers was to be determined according to rule .() of police rules but the concerned authorities of police department etermined the seniority according to the provisions of civil servants act, and issued a seniority list vide office order no. igp -() dated ... the contention of the respondent was not supported by relevant rules and law. after lapse of ten () years the concerned authorities of police department realized that the seniority list issued on .. was violative of relevant rules and prepared a fresh seniority list according to age factor under rule .() of police rules whereby petitioner no. to have been declared senior to the respondent. it ga ve no benefit to the petitioner no. to as the seniority list issued on .. has already gained finality and holding filed since last years. further, the learn ed counsels for the petitioner could not point out any infirmity illegality in the impugned judgment, hence, no interference is warranted into it by this court. in view of the above discussions, we dismiss ed this appeal through our short ... consequently, the impugned .. in service appeal no. page the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal is maintained. these were the reasons of our said short order. the appeal is dismissed in above ter judge.