page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, skardu registry. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. muhammad son of bilal resident of muhallah balghar, tehsil daghoni khapulu, district ghanche. petitioner. yousaf son of abdul salam, resident of muhallah khanqah balghar, tehsil daghoni, district ghanche. respondent. present: date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgement. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan, whereby the petition filed by the present petitioner was dismissed being meritless. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal consequently issued notice to the respondent and the case was heard on ... the petition of the petitioner upon hearing was dismissed vide this court short ... page the brief facts of the case are that the petitioner plaintiff filed civil suit no. -a for cancellation of gift deed dated .. bearing registration no. and for perpetual injection etc against the respondent which upon hearing was partially decreed to the extent of cancellation of gift deed dated .. whereas the prayer for perpetual injection was dismissed vide ... the suit no. filed by the respondent was decreed in favour of the resp ondent. whereafter both the petitioner and the respondent feeling aggrieved filed civil first appeal nos. and respectively which upon hearing were dismissed and the partial decree the learned trial court in favour of the petitioner plaintiff was also dismissed vide ... the petitioner again assailed the judgment of the learned first appellate court be fore the learned chief court which upon hearing the impugned judgment was upheld, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the disputed property is yet in the possession of the petitioner as he is the real owner of the property in question. he also submits that the gift deed effected on .. in favo ur of the petitioner was admitted by the respondent as well. he submits that the learned first appellate court and the learned chief court failed to appreciate this admitted fact and did not consider the same while passing the judgments. he reiterates that mohammad, father of page abdus salam is real brother of one bilal. so, mohammad and bilal are inter se real brothers. .. to his ne phew mohammad and thereby deprived his son yousaf. muhammad filed suit for permanent injection. he submits that the learned courts below fell in error to consider the aid gift and passed the impugned judgments which are not sustainable and liable to be set aside. conversely, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned .. the learned chief court. he contends that there are concurrent findings of the three courts below are well reasoned and well founded and no interference is warranted therein. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, peruse the record of the case file and gone through the concurrent findings of th ree courts below. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned .. the learned chief court. in view of the above discussions we dismissed this appeal vide our short ... consequently, the impugned order dat ed .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court and the concurrent findings of the courts below were maintained. these were the reasons for the said short order. page the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?