page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. -ud-din, judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. ahmed brothers trade international waliab ad gilgit gulmat nagar district hunza nagar through muhammad ali akhtar managing director petitioner. national bank of pakistan having its head head office at chunderigar road karachi pakistan through president. regional head national bank of pakistan gilgit baltistan gilgit. manager national bank of pakistan sost branch sost. government of gilgit baltistan through chief secretary gilgit. gilgit baltistan council, gb council secretariat islamabad through secreta ry. (respondents present: joher ali khan aor for the petitioner. to alongwith zubaid ahmed sheikh, regional head, national bank of pakistan and general manager operation nbp. the advocate general gilgit -baltist an, gilgit for respondent no. the deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit baltistan for the respondent no.. date of hearing: --. date of announcement of judgme nt:- ... dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj this petition arisen out of the impugned .., the learned division bench, chief court, gilgit baltistan in writ petition no. upon hearing it was dismissed being me ritless and having no substance. the petitioner page feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned .., preferred this leave to appeal before this court with the pra yer that the said impugned judgment be set asi de. he further prayed that the establishment of banking court, the functioning and taking cognizance jurisdiction of loan recovery cases by banking courts in gilgit baltistan are illegal, unlawful, without lawful authority and without jurisdiction. no noti fication regarding the establishment of banking courts through an official gazette by the government of gilgit baltistan in terms of sub section of section of the financial institutions (recovery of finances) ordinance read with section of he financial institutions (recovery of finances) adaptation enforcement order has been issued so far. the learned counsel for the petitioner contended that the taking cognizance jurisdiction of bank recovery case of the petitioner and all other cases of the amo unts exceeding to million rupees by the honorable illegal and without authority as the honorable -section of section of the financial resources (recovery of finances) ordinance read with section of the financial institutions (recovery of finances) adap tation order page the learned counsel for the petitioner further contended that directions may be given to respondent no. (government of gilgit baltistan to exercise its powers vested in him vide section of the financial institutions (recover of finances) adaptation order read with section of the financial institutions (recovery of finances) ordinance to establish banking courts in gilgit baltistan through proper notification published in official gazette government of gilgit baltistan, and there after appoint banking court judges afte a proper and meaningful consultation with the learned chief judge, chief court, gilgit baltistan. he continued his arguments while saying hat the orders of the chief judg e, chief court, gilgit baltistan ated .. in civil suit no. of nominating () to act as banking (recovery of loans, advances, credits and finances) act of is otally illegal, unlawful and ab -initio void in the eyes of la w. the leaned counsel for the petitioner relied upon a reported case of indian supreme court in case s.c legal aid committee union of india, cc () jt () on the other hand the learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the government of gilgit -baltistan page being the competent authority after consultation with the learned chief judge, chief court, gilgit baltistan has esta blished the banking court in terms of sub section of section of the financial institutions (recovery of finance) adaption enforcement order which is lawful and in accordance of the law and procedure, however, in the notification dated .. while nominating gilgit -baltistan, the said law has erroneously been misquoted with provisions of a repealed law of baking companies (recovery of loans, advances, credits and finances) act he conte nded that misquoted of any law does not create any illegality and unlawfulness in any order. hence, the order .. in writ petition no. the learned division bench of the chief court gilgit -baltistan is requires to maintained being well reasoned and according to law. he also submits that the banking courts were established in accordance with law and their presiding officers were also competently appointed as after promulgation of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self -governance) order, the powers vested to the gilgit -baltistan council under serial no. and of schedule -iii of the said order. he finally submitted that the counsel for the petitioner during his lengthy argument could not pointed ou any illegality and infirmity in the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned division bench of the chief court gilgit -baltistan. hence, page the leave to appeal may be dismissed and the said impugned judgment passed in writ petition no. by the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan be maintained in the interest of the he relied upon the reported cases in support of his arguments i.e. pld sc case titled pakistan fisheries ltd karachi others united bank limited, scmr cld and plj sc the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit and learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan support the impugned judgment the learned chief court gilgit baltistan and adopted the arguments of the learn ed counsel for respondent bank. we have heard both the learned counsel for the respective parties at length as well as the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan and earned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit -baltistan, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned jud gment dated .. in writ petition no. we have also perused section of the financial institutions (recove of finances) adaptation order read with section of the financial institutions (recovery of finances) ordinance and provision of a repealed law of banking companies recovery of loans, advances, cr edits and finances) act of as well as the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order in our considered view no illegality and infirmity has been pointed out by the learned page counsel for the petitioner in the impugned .. in writ petition no. passe by the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. consequently, the petition is converted into an appeal and the same is dismissed. the impugned judgment of the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan passed in writ petition no. on .. is maintain ed. the appeal is dismissed. chief judge. judge. whether the case if fit to be reported or not?