page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan registry branch skardu. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla. no. jaffar ali zakir ali shaheed colony tehsil and district skardu petitioner. jawad ali ahmed joo braska ranga tehsil gamba district skardu. respondent. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order read with relevant provisions of gilgit baltistan supreme appellate court rules against the impugned judgment of the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan dated .., whereby the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court accepted the civil 2nd appeal filed by the respondent and decreed the suit fof respondent on flimsy grounds. present: date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition has been arisen out of the impugned .. in csa no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court whereby the appeal of the respondent was accepted while setting aside the .. of the learned additional district .. of the learned trial court was maintained. the petitioner feelin aggrieved by and dissatisfied with file this setting aside the said impugned judgment and to page maintain the judgment the learned additional district this court issued notice to the respondent vide .. and the case was heard on ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the inspector general, northern light infantry (nli) chairman nli welfare trust was pleased to allot a plot no. measuring five marlas on .. under allotment no. mc property -, situated shaheed colony skardu to the petitioner in recognition of the services of his father during his service. he also submits that the said plot is in possession of the petitioner since its allotment and the petitione constructed a house over the said plot and presently the petitioner lives in the said house. he further submits that in pursuance of the allotment .., the inspector general northern light infantry chairman welfare trust is pleased to allot a residential plot no. measuring five () marlas at mujahid colony skardu out of northern light infantry land to (son) no. naik zakir hussain nli bn as welfare and rehabilitation measure as per following demarcation: road road plot plot plot page he further submits that the demarcation made and the possession of the said plot was give to the petitioner by hq brigade. the above plot will not be sold transferred to any other person without written permission of nli centre, failing which the allotment will automatically be treated as cancelled. for convenience the allotment letter no. mc property dated .. containing mandatory conditions laid down therein is reproduced as under: northern light infantry regiment centre bunji cantt (gilgit) mc property december allotment order. inspector general, northern light infantry (nli) chairman nli welfare trust was pleased to allot a plot no. measuring five marlas at shaheed colony skardu out of northern light infantry land khasra number __________ to (son) no. naik zakir hussain nli bn as welfare and rehab ilitation measure as per following demarcation: road road plot the possession demarcation of land will be given by the property officer of northern light infantry welfare trust hq bde. the above plot will not be sold transferred to any other person without written permission of nli centre, failing which the allotment will automatically be treated as cancelled. colonel vice chairman nli welfare trust (nazir ahmed) plot plot page he further submits that on the other hand, the respondent is claiming that the plot no. was allotted to one subedar major hassan resident of katpanah through a gift deed in his favor who was stranger. he contends that no plot can be transferred and possession thereto be given without the permis sion of head quarter northern light infantry. the respondent filed civil suit no. before the learned civil upon hearing, the learn ed civil .. decreed the suit property in favor of plaintiff respondent who were stranger. the petitioner being aggrieved challenged the said judgment before the learned additional district wherein, the lea rned addit ional district .. in cfa no. the respondent feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the said impug ned judgment filed csa no. before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. upon hearing, the learned gilgit baltistan chief court vide its .. accepted the appeal and set aside the impugned judgment the learned district judge, hence, this leave to appeal for setting aside the impugned judgment as well as the judgment the learned trial court skardu. he further submits that the judgment of the learned district court was based on facts and page law whereas the impugned .. the chief court and .. of the learned civil -reading and misr eading of the facts of the case and implication of misconception of law hence, the same are require to be set aside. on the other hand the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned .. the learned chief court and the judgment the trial court being well reasoned are sustainable. no interference is warranted thereto. the judgment the lea rned additional district we have heard both the learned counsels for respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the judgment of the courts below as well as allotment order no. mc property -. admittedly, the plot no. was allotted by nli regiment center bonji to the petitioner father on ... the mutation of the said plot attested on .. and the possession of same was given to him by brigade. the said plot is in the possession of the petitioner who has constructed a residential house over this plot after demarcation made possession given by the head quarter rigade. in view of the above discussion, in our considered view the impugned .. in csa no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is not well page founded and the .. in cfa no. the learned district consequently, we convert ed this petition into an appeal and the same was allowed vide ur short ... the impugned .. in csa no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the .. in civil suit no. the civil whereas, the .. in cfa no. the learned additional district these were the reasons for our said short order. the app eal is allowed. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?