page the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit syed arshad hussain shah, cj wazir shakil ahmed, no. in civil misc. no. in cpla, u no. dardmand shah ameer shah, ex -levy assistant commissioner office punial ishkoman, ishkoman khas, district ghizer. petitioner provincial government through cs gb, gilgit secretary home prison gb, gilgit secretary services gb, gilgit deputy commissioner ghizer assistant commissioner punial ghizer agpr district accounts officer ghizer respondent present the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the respondent raja shakil ahmed advocate, for the petitioner aor date of hearing: .. judgment wazir shakil ahmed, judge .the above tilted cpla has been filed by the petitioner named above, being aggrieved by the judgment .. of the gilgit -baltistan service tribunal passed in service appeal no. whereby, the service appeal of the petitioner was dismissed. page the brief and admitted facts of the case are summarized as under: that the petitioner was an employee in teh sil office ishakomen ghizer, who was duly appointed as levy (bs -) in the tehsil office ishkomen, after carr ying out necessary codal formalities.vide office .., it is further mentioned that service of the etitioner was to be governed by the government servant (appointment, promotion and transfer rules, it was in the year when the answe ring respondent nos. for the first time noticed absence of the petitioner from his duty and found him inef ficient in per forming the aid duties, and the respond ent no. the deputy commissioner ghizer, vide office order no. esst -() dated .., got initiated an inquir against the petitioner alleging that the peti tioner has demonstrated misconduct and disobedience in performing his duties. ide office .., it is further alleged that despite several warnings, the peti tioner continued showing irregular behav iors and observed gross negligence by remaining absent from duty of and on, and a result of which the sala ry of the petitioner was duly st opped with immediate effect and until further orders and the respondent no. the assistant commissioner punial ishkomen wa appointed as inquiry officer, under the gilgit -baltistan civil servant (efficiency page discipline) rules, who was to submit his finding and recommendation ithin days. the case file is attached with yet another office order no. estt -() dated .., whereby, the respondent no. the deputy commissioner ghizer, in the lig ht of the finding of the inquir officer the pres ent respondent no. dismissed the petitioner from government service with immediate effect. the petitioner filed an appeal before the secretary home gilgit -baltistan on .., who vide a letter dated .., addressed to the respondent no. the eputy commissioner ghizer, conveyed the dismissal of the appeal the petitioner by the competen authority being meritless, which culminated into filing of an appeal before the learned service tribunal gilgit -baltistan. to the u tmost dissatisfaction of the petitioner, the said appeal was also met with the same fat and was accordingly dismissed vide impu gned .., hence, this leave to appeal. we have heard the learned counsel for the parties at length and also gone hrough the record of the case with their able assistance, while doing so, we have painfu lly observed that the learned bench of the service tribunal gilgit -baltistan, page through their concluding para no. of the impugned judgment have unnece ssarily indulged themselves regarding fil ing of the departmental appeal by the present petitioner on .., and found the same to be directly addressed to the home se cretary gilgit -baltistan not through proper channel by holding th at a proper departmental appeal th rough proper channel, which is pre requisite for exercise of jurisdiction, which was fou nd lacking in the said matter. the bench vide impugned judgment order further held that: as to the question of limitation if the appeal annexed with the instant appeal is considered, that date of dismissal of same is .. against which instant appeal has been preferred before this tribunal on .. after lapse of month and days, hence th instant appeal is time barred. furthermore, on merits the impugned judgment order further held in just a half of paragraph as under: as far as the claim of the appellant that the dismis sal order is against law, facts and rule is concerned, the record shows that a proper inquiry has been conducted by the competent authority as per law rules and ad apting relevant procedure and page seems no irregularity or illegality is committed by the inquiry officer in conducting inquiry. in view of the above, we hold that the instant appeal is liable to be dismissed. appeal stands dismissed. file be consigned to recor after completion. as discussed above, major charges against the petitioner was that of demonstration of misconduct and disobedienc in performance of duties regarding which the respondent o. has entrusted an inquir against the petitioner to respo ndent o. who was to probe the said allegations under the gilgit -baltistan civil servants (efficiency discipline) rules, but to the contrary following two vague charges wer framed against the pet itioner: (a) he remains habitually absent fro govt. duty and has ceased to efficient in performance of duty. (b) he is engaged in private job and working as sales agent in state life insurance corporation. it is clear that the abov two ch arges were altogether different, which were regarding commission of misconduct and disobedience in performance of duties as alleged in the office .., which was in fact the subject matter of the inquiry ot initiated by the respondent o. page the record of the ase is altogether silent about habit ual absence the petitioner, which has amply discussed in the preceding paras, but on ground it was just an absence of days and that was also due to the road accident of the petitioner during which the right leg of the petitioner was fractured and thereafter was supported with a steel rod by carrying out surgery and the petitioner was further advised medi cal rest for days from .. to ... from the plain perusal of the reco rd, the answering respondent did not acknowledge the bed rest issued in his favor and got initiated an inquiry on the ba sis of misconduct and willful disobedience etc. another painful aspect of the above sorry state of affair is that the petitioner in the result of the above order of dismissal from service that also on the basis of absence of days from duty went such a mental agony, which resulted into open heart surg ery and the petitioner was further to face throat cancer of his teenage girl, the undeniable proof of the same is attached with the case file. now coming back on the point of limitation, as has mentioned in the judgment order of the learned service tribunal gilgit -baltistan, it is regretfully notice that the member bench has miscalculated the period of limitation, which is crystal clear on the face of the record. the date of dismissal of the appeal page th competent authority as shown by the impug ned judgment is .., agains which the appeal before the service tribunal gilgit -baltistan, has shown to be preferred on .., but, the ervice tribunal has wrongly shown the same as time barred stating that the appeal has been filed (after lapse of month and days), in fact it was just days, that also, if the date is reckoned with the passing of dismissal order of appeal i.e. .., which is not the case at all as per section of the gilgit -baltistan civil servants (efficiency discipline) rules, sec. (any civil servant on whom a penalty has been imposed under these rules, except where the penalty has been imposed by the government, may within days from the date of the communication of the order, appeal to such authority as may be prescribed: provided that, if the appellate authority is dissatis fied that there is sufficient ground for extending the time it may entertain th appeal at any time.) it is clear from the provision of ab ove section that the time of days shall be reckoned not from the date of order but from the date of communication of the order to the petitioner. page in the light of above hard fact, it is crystal lear that the learned service tr ibunal has failed to a pply their judicious mind to the law and also the facts inv olved in the case in hand and the findings arrived at warrants interference and by doing so, we, convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed, consequently, the impugned judgment .. the learned service tribuna gilgit -baltistan, is set aside and direct the reinstatement of the petitioner in his service from the date of ismissal with all back benefits. announced .. chief (yes no