page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. shaukat riaz respondent. present: the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general and -on-record for the petitioners. muhammad abbas khan advocate -on-record for respondent. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil appeal has been directed against the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition filed by the respondent was accepted by directing the petitioner to reinstate the respondent into his service from he date of his termination with all back benefits. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case was heard on .. briefly, the facts giving rise to this case are that the respondent was appointed on contract basis in the department of rescue as station coordinator district diamer on .. page with the condition of successful completion of training probat ion period. after his appointment he was sent for months training of basic rescue course in the emergency services academy at lahore. the respondent joined the said training at lahore on ... during his training, the respondent went on leave w.e.f .. to ... he was directed to report back to the academy latest by pm on .. but the respondent failed to join the academy in due time. on .. the roll of the respondent was struck up on disciplinary grounds. apart from the aforementioned unau thorized absence from training, the respondent was also charge for misconduct. subsequently, the petitioner terminated the respondent as his services were found unsatisfactory during his probation period. the respondent being aggrieved filed writ petition in the learned chief court which upon hearing was accepted giving him the relief as prayed for. the petitioner were directed to reinstate the respondent into his service from the date of his termination with all back benefits. the learned advocate general submits that the petitioner was a contract employee who has no protection under the civil servants act the petitioner was on probation and duri ng this period instead of showing progress, he proved ill -disciplined which is not tolerable. per learned advocate general, such acts of misconduct created not only a bad impact on fellow employees but it has adversely effected on departmental general dis cipline and image. he submits that the action taken against the page respondent by the petitioner is in accordance with law. per learned advocate general, in such a case, an employee, if his services are found unsatisfactory, during probation period, on an allegation of misconduct, the services of such incumbent can be terminated. he submits that the impugned .. the learned chief court is not sustainable. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment. he contends that the respondent was appointed by the petitioner no. after fulfilling all the codal formalities. after his appointment, he was sent for months training to acq uire knowledge of basic rescue course -. on .. after getting months training from the aid academy, the petitioner no. have all of sudden struck off the respondent from the said academy. he contends that as per rules it is not necessar training for trained officials as the respondent has already obtained months training from the said academy. he further contends that the allegations leveled against the respondent are baseless, discriminatory and against the government policy. he co ntends that the act of absence for days is admitted, the violati on of it is liable to be punished for the charges leveled against him but a major penalty i.e. termination from service is illegal and discriminatory in nature. he submits that the learned chief court has rightly accepted the writ petition of the respondent. he prays that the said impugned judgment may graciously be maintained. page we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gon through the impugned judgment. admittedly, the respondent was on contract employee and his appointment against the impugned post was subject to su ccessful completion of training during probation period. consequently, he was sent for months trainin of basic rescue course at emergency services academy rescue lahore. joined the said training on ... whereafter he sought leave which was allowed -e-f .. to .. with the directions to report back to the said academy latest pm on .. but he failed to report the academy in due time which is violative of rules during probation period. consequently, his services were terminated by the petitioners. the employees of rescue are responsible to provide emergency services during crisis and disaster conditions. he must have show high levels of discipline and sense of responsibility as the nature of their duties calls for it. in our considered view, the termination .. issued by the peti tioner no. is well reasoned and well founded whereas the learned chief court fell in error while accepting the writ petition of the respondent, hence, the impugned judgment is not tenable in law. in view of the above discussions, we convert ed this petition into an appeal and the same was allowed vide our short ... consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the page learned chief court was set aside. these were the reasons of our said hort order. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.