page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. -ud-din, judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. ali khan mir za khan nomal tehsil district gilgit. petitioner appellant plaintiff the director civil supply transport gilgit. the secretary finance gilgit -baltistan. provincial govt. through chief secretary gilgit -baltist an. respondent defendant leave to appeal under section of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, against the consolidated judgment decree dated single bench chief court gilgit -baltistan in civil second appeal no. and civil revision no. whereby the learned chief court dismissing the civil second appeal of petitioner appellant and accepting the revision petition filed by respondent set aside the partial judgment decree dated additional district and upheld the impugned office order no admin -() dcs dated for setting aside the impugned judgment decree by converting this leave to appeal into appeal and accepting the appeal this and partial judgment decree of learned additional district ., as stock shortage a nd landed cost subsidy in govt treasury. present: page ali nazar khan aor for the petitioner. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. date of hearing: --. date of announcement of judgment:- ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj the petitioner filed above petition calling in question the impugned --, the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan in civil second appeal no. the upshot of the case in hand is that the petitioner appellant was an employee of the department of civil supply, gilgit -baltistan. the respondent vide office order no. admn --() dcst dated -- had terminated the ervices of the petitioner in addition to recovery of rs as arrears of land revenue on the charge of found shortage of commodities of civil supply department and for not depositing sale price of commodities with the government treasury during is posting as assistant civil supply sub -inspector (acsi). the petitioner had deposited partial amount of rs and remaining due amount of rs. ,, has not been deposited in line with the said office order referred above. thereafter, the petitioner filed a suit before the learned trial court while making impugned his termination .. the respondents. the learned trial court partially decreed the suit in his favour to the extent that he be reinstated in the service with all back benefits subject to his deposit ing the outstanding amount of rs. ,. in the treasury. the respondent feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with judgment decree dated -- filed cross appeal cited above. the first appellat court, after having heard the parties page observed that i found no force in both appeals filed by the parties, thereof; both the appeals are hereby dismissed. consequently the impugned judgment decree dated -- the learned trial court is ma intained. the petitioner, however, made impugned in civil second appeal no. the judgments of the two courts below before the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan, who upon hearing not only reversed both the impugned judgments of the courts bel ow but also maintained the office order no admin -() dcs dated the present respondents, ence this petition.after preliminary hearing, his court issued notice to the respondent to hear both the patties in detail in the intere st of justice. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner was posted at gupis civil supply depot in the year as assistant civil supply inspector. the petitioner rendered his services punctually with diligence, honestly and de dication. in the year during a stock checking by the competent authority of the department a shortage of stock amounting to rs. was detected and the said amount has already been deposited by the petitioner in the treasury with national ba nk of pakistan gupis branch vide treasury chall ans nos. .. to .. whereas the case wa initiated vide fir no. ated .. after deposit of the said amount in the national bank of pakistan gupis branch. however after seventeen yea rs the respondent on malafide grounds was shown shortage of stock against the petitioner on the basis of a biased inquiry report by the then director civil supply gilgit -baltistan, whereafter the services page of the petitioner were terminated illegally and ithout any cogent reason. he further submits that the said amount was not shown through any separate report. whatever shown through the said biased report was presumptive, fabricated and manipulative by the then authorities of the department in question. he submits that he learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan despite of the above facts dismissed the second appeal of the petitioner and allowed the revision petition of the respondents, which is contrary to the law and -reading of the record of case in hand, hence the same is liable to set aside. that the impugned judgment decree the learned chief court and partial decrees the learned subordinate courts are incorrect and against the law. he further ontended that the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan as well as the learned trial court and 1st appellate court failed to properly and completely conceive the facts of the case, specially the exaggerated report compiled by director civil supply on the ba sis of which the fake case was initiated against the petitioner. he also submits hat the sale price of rs. ,, was duly deposited from january to october with national bank gupis branch on the strict advice of the then director, ch. zafar ullah. the impugned judgment is misconceived, misunderstood or being meritless and is not sustainable. that the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan failed to apply its judicial mind to dilate the question of landed cost subsidy being born by federal government which is recoverable from the public whether any such recovery was initiated against other petitioner in gilgit page baltistan except the petitioner. that the report case against the petitioner was biased, discriminatory and malafide as the facts have gone un -noticed by the learned subordinate courts. he submits that the learned chief court supported the said biased discrimination and malafide of the department of civil supply authorities in letter and spirit, hence the impugned judgment of learne chief court based on misconception of the facts. that the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan and subordinate courts have exercise their jurisdiction illegally and with material irregularity not so not vested with them. that the impugned judgment is passed in utter violation of the relevant law, rules and procedure hence, has lost its legal credibility. he also contended that the impugned judgment decree is nothing but reproduction of the fake, fabricated and malafide record prepared and composed by the department in question which has caused great miscarriage of justice, hence the impugned judgment is not maintainable. he finally concluded his arguments with the contentions that initially three civil supply inspectors of the department in question we re charged on the same facts grounds but two of them have been reinstated subject to deposit of the land revenue arr ears in the government treasury. he petitioner has been twice prosecuted and his services were terminated and treated discriminately. he urges that u nder the doctrine of the double jeopardy especially when he is acquitted from the court of law on the same charges, he cannot be vexed twice for the same charges. in support of his contentions, he made page reliance in a case of inspector general of police shafqat mehmood, reported as scmr, on the other hand, the learned advocate general gilgit baltistan supports the impugned .. being well reasoned and well founded. he contended that the petitioner has misap propriated the government and public property being custodian of the said property and caused huge los to the government exchequer. this was the reason that the petitioner has not only been terminated from the services but an fir no. was also been egistered against him. initially there were three accused charged on the separate misappropriation in stocks. two of them in line of the order of the department, deposited the alleged amount in initial stage in the government treasury be fore the initiatio of departmental inquiry against them. the petitioner, however, has not deposited the misappropriated sales proceeds despite of the orders of the authorities of his department and tried to take benefits from the prolonged litigations. there are three conc urrent findings of the courts below with regards to the deposit of the misappropriated sale proceeds amount. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan vide impugned --, in civil second appeal no. has very rightly accepted the revision filed by the provincial government and took serious notice against the corruption and misappropriation of public property by the petitioner. after committing such a huge misappropriation how the respondent could allow the petitioner to continue in services. he further submits that the impugned .. page the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan on the basis of report of one member expert commission i.e. the deputy accountant general, nominated by the learned chi ef court ilgit-baltistan. the said commission submitted his report on .. and gave his findings against the petitioner being responsible and ascertained that a sum of rs. ,, only has been de posited in the said bank by him from the period dated .. to ... the learned advocate general submits that the impugned .. the learned chief court may be maintained misappropriated amount ordered to be recovered from the petitioner to secure the ends of justice. the learned advocate general also submits that petitioner case is totally on different footings as of three other employees who deposited the sale proceeds amounts as soon as it was detected. it is not a case of double jeopardy and department has right ly proceeded against him in accordance with law. he while saying so relied upon the judgment in case nazir ahmed capital city police officer, lahore, scmr, herein the honorable apex court of pakistan has held that disciplinary action coul have been taken against the petitioner after his acquittal for the simple reason that criminal proceedings would have no substantial bearing on merits of the case. the criminal proceedings and disciplinary proceedings are not synonymous or interchangeabl having distinct features and characteristics. he also made reliance on a judgment of apex court of pakistan in case of muhammad ayub the chairman electricity board (wapda), pld, sc, ). in this case the learned apex court of pakistan was leased to hold that any page penalty imposed on a civil servant as a consequence of departmental proceedings under efficiency and discipline rules, after accused officer has been acquitted of criminal charge is not barred. fresh trial and punishment for same of fence is barred and not infliction of a penalty as a result of departmental proceedings. we have heard the learned counsel fo both the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the judgment of all three courts below as well as the above referred case laws cited by both the learned counsels. the case laws cited by the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan are applicable and the cases relied upon by the learned counsel for the petitioner are distinguishable. in view of the above, in our considered view the impugned .., the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan is well reasoned as no illegally and infirmity has been pointed out by the learned counsel for the petitioner. consequent ly, we dismiss the appeal. the impugned .., the learned chief court gilgit baltistan in csa no. is upheld whereas the .., the learned civil the appeal is dismissed. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not? page