page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. yad gari others petitioner s. government of gilgit -baltistan others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. deputy advocate general on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil revision filed by the petitioner was dismissed by maintaining the concurrent findings of the courts below. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respond ents and the case is heard today. briefly the facts of the case are that the petitioner plaintiff filed civil suit no. in the court of learned civil and he is in possession of the said land since upon hearing, the said suit was dismissed vide .. declaring the disputed lan as khalisa sarkar. the judgment of the learned trial court was upheld up to the learned chief court. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal for setting aside the concurrent findings of the learned three courts below. the learned counsel for the petitioner sub mits that the petitioner is in possession of the disputed land since and the land in question was given to him by the then raja gupis in return of his services. the adjacent land belongs to the then raja wh ich is in possession of his sons. he also submits that the petitioner have made huge development in land in question by planting trees etc. per learned counsel district ghizer is an unsettled area and there is no khalisa land thereat ghizer, hence, the findings of the courts below are the misinterpretation of law and facts of the case. he submits that although there are three concurrent findings of the courts be low yet all the courts fell in error while passing the impugned judgments orders. he prays that the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, the earned deputy advocate general supports the impugned .. in civil page revision no. the learned chief court. he contends that the petitioner failed to produce an iota of evidence in support of his claim. he also contends that the learned counsel for the petitioner himself conceeded in the learned chief court that the land is khalisa sarkar. he further contends that the courts below have rightly dismissed the appeal of the petitioner while passing the impugned judgments or ders, hence, no indulgence is warranted into its by this court. he prays that the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the espective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court and the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. the perusal of the record transpires that the petitioner failed either to produce any evidence with regard to the allotment or the gift deed so affected by the then raja as per his claim regarding the said land in his favour mere possession of the land does not create right of ownership. the learned counsel for the petitioner also could not point out any illegality infirmity in the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court. in view of the above, we convert th is petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequent thereto, the page impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court is maintained. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.