page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan at skardu registry. muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. appeal no. in cpla. no. president first micro finance skardu three others petitioners. muhammad ishaq son of abdullah rahim, og-, presently area office, the first micro finance bank skardu, baltistan. respondent. present:- ali khan advocate- on-record for the petitioners. ishaq shakir advocate on behalf of the respondent. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment:- .. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj ... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court whereby the said civil revision no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed by maintaining the judgment of the learned district hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case was finally heard on ... briefly facts of the case are that the respondent filed a civil suit against the petitioner for declaration to the effect that he page has a right to continue his services in the petitioner bank as officer grade-. he is also entitled for pay and other benefi ts. he pray for cancellation of the impugned termination .. issued on the basis of fake, factitious self made resignation attributed to the respondent. the petitioner contested the suit with the assertion that the respondent has himself tendered his resignation addressed to the group head human resource training. it was subsequently sent to the higher authorities by the area manager of the said bank for orders or otherwise. accord ing to the version of the respondent the group head accepted the resignation of the respondent, subsequently, his services were terminated accordingly. the learned trial court after getting pro contra evidence dismissed the suit of the respondent vide its judgment decree dated .. which was assailed through civil first appeal no. before the learned first appellate court. upon hearing it was partially accepted by setting aside the judgment decree of the learned trail court vide judgment .., which was upheld by the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court with the directions that the respondent be reinstated on his services with effect from the date of his termination i.e. .. with all back benefits. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that in the year a downsizing scheme was introduced in the learned first micro finance bank and the group, head human resource page training visited baltistan region for the said purpose. he also submits that with the help of operation department, a list of the employees were prepared who were given option that in case of their resignations they shall be given certain incentives the second option was that in case of non-acceptance of the said offer, the services of the employees would be terminated. he further submits the learned trial court while dismissing the suit of the respondent observed that the respondent has not taken a plea of undue influence in tendering his resignation, consequently his case was rightly dismissed. as per the learned counsel for the petitioner it is proved beyond any doubt that the resignation of the respondent was procured on the basis of the said downsizing scheme. he further submits that the respondent was either to tender his resignation by accepting the offered incentives or to face compulsory termination from his service. the respondent voluntarily resigned in order to accept incentive offered by the petitioner bank. he finally submits that on such circumstances the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court wrongly dismissed the civil revision no. and the petitioner were directed to regularize the service of the respo ndent with all back benefits, which is not sustainable. on the other hand the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment the gilgit- baltistan chief court being well reasoned well founded. he contends that the petitioner have obtained the signature of the page respondent plaintiff with the pretext by introducing the downsizing policy of the employees of first micro financ bank. later on the services of other employees who resign earlier, have been re-employed whereas the services of the respondent have not been reinstated. he contends that the respondent has not tendered any resignation willfully with his free consent. he was constrained to sign on his application. he also contends that the respondent has spent his (ten) years with the petitioner bank and during that period he has been admittedly given commendation certificate etc. he maintains that the respondent is only bread winner of his family and now he is years old who cannot apply for any employment in any other organization. he prays that the said impugned judgment may very graciously be maintained being passed in accordance with law and facts of the case. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court has rightly held that the impugned resignation dated .. was forcibly procured from the petitioner by introducing the downsizing scheme. admittedly the respondent were given two options i.e. either the employees including the respondent had to page tender their resignation or they had to face unilateral termination for their services by the petitioner bank. since the respondent did not tender any resignation willfully and voluntarily, we are in agreement with the observation made by the learned gilgit- baltistan chief court which is accordingly affirmed. in view of the above discussions, we dismissed this petition vide our short ... consequently, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court as well as the .. in civil first appeal no. the learned additional district .. in civil suit no. the learned senior civil these were the reasons for our said short order. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?