page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. mustaqeem respondent. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. malik shafqat wali senior advocate alongwith -on-record or respondent. date of hearing: ... judgment. this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the said writ petition filed by the respondent was partially allowed to the extent of compound interest on the compensation amount from the date of award i.e. .. till the date of payment i.e. .., hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard today. the learned advocate general submits that the respondent filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court for issuance of direction to the petitioner for payment of page amount under award no. dk sakarkoi dated ... he also submits tha the respondent during hearing of the case in the learned chief court requested for withdrawal of his writ petition as compensation was released and paid to him while allowing of the request of respondent, the learned chief court directed the petitioner pay compound interest to him. per learned advocate general, the awarded compensation was received by the respondent without protest, therefore, under section of the land acquisition act, no reference can be filed against any award which is acc epted without protest, hence, the writ petition is not maintainable in circumstances. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error to consider the procedure after passing of award. he submits that the said impugned judgment is the result of mis-interpretation of law and misreading and non- reading of the facts of the case which is not sustainable. on the other hand, malik shafqat wali learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned judgment the learned chief court. he contends that admittedly the compensation amount i.e. rs. ,, had been paid to the respondent vide cheque no. of karakoram cooperative bank kashrote branch gilgit. the petitioner, however, failed to pay compound interest on the amount of compensation from the date of possession of acquired land till the payment of compensation. per learned counsel, the acquired land compensation was included in revised pc in the page year and the said pc was approved for the payment of land compensation of the respondent. the respondent is entitled for the payment of land compensation alongwith compound interest thereto under section of the land acquisition act, he submits that the learned chief court has rightly allowed the writ etition filed by the respondent. he prays that the said impugned judgment may pleased be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment the learned chief court. we agree with the contentions legal plea raised by the learned advocate general. the impugned .. the learned chief court is not tenable in law. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is set aside. the a ppeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.