page the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit syed arshad hussain shah, cj wazir shakil ahmed, no: in under objection no. federal public service commission through its chairman petitioner ehsan -ul-haq sher afzal khan resident of diamer colony jutial gilgit. respondent the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. the secretary kashmir gilgit -baltistan affairs division, islamabad. the secretary services general administration department gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. shaista shehbaz shehbaz khan tehsil puniyal district ghizer. ammara tabassum muhammad afzal khan noor colony jutial gilgit. arifa muhammad asfar mohallah khomar yarkot gilgit. saadat ali changezi hussain ali dakpura gilgit. syed saqib hussain. proforma respondent present the deputy attorney general pakistan for gilgit baltistan for the petitioner. date of hearing: 1st july, judgment page wazir shakil ahmed, ----- the above tilted matter was put up before us on .., for preliminary hearing and the same was adjourned for today i.e. .., as the learned deputy attorney general pakistan for gilgit -baltistan, apprised the court that the institution of the matter in hand was not within his knowledge, i was also brought into the notice of this court that despite having knowledge information, the assistant director fpsc, failed to mark his attendance before this court on appointed date i.e. .., so the matter was fixed for today i.e. ... the learned deputy attorney general pakistan for gilgit -baltistan, while arguing her matter, opted to read the concluding paras of the impugned judgment .., of the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan, which resulted into the filin of the present petition. brief facts of the case are that the answering respondent was one of candidates, who qualified the test conducted by the present petitioner i.e. federal public service commission, for the posts of assistant commissioner, section officer, project manager, tehsildar and development officer. there were vacant posts of categories mentioned above along with quota seats reserved for women and minorities. the name of the respondent was not reflected in the final list of candidates who were recommended for appointment on the basis of their securing arks in the written test viva voce, being below merit than other qualified candidates, which culminated into the filing of writ petition bearing no. before the page learn ed chief court gilgit -baltistan, wherein the present respondent called in question the recommendation of some selected female candidates having being secured less marks as compared to the present respondent. during the pendency of the said writ petitio the name of the present respondent was also recommended by the present petitioner named above, as some one or two successful candidates did not opt to join the posts for which they were held entitled to. keeping in view the developed scenario, the earned chief court gilgit -baltistan was apprised about the fact that not a single person from minorities had applied for rec ruitment against any of the reserved posts for the minorities. resulting which the posts against the quota of minorities is still va cant in order to advertise the same again. it is an admitted state of fact that in the whole area of gilgit -baltistan, there is no permanent resident having minority status, resulting which not a single person can be named as a successful candidate any of the competitive examination against the minority quota. we are of the firm opinion that no fruitful purpose shall be served by holding the post against minority quota in gilgit -baltistan, because of the hard fact mentioned above that there is no existence of any minority in all the istricts of gilgit -baltistan. so the learned division bench chief court gilgit baltistan has not committed any illegality and irregularity by page directing to appoint the present respondent as tehslidar against the vacant post, failing which it was also decided that he may be appointed against any already vacant post of minorities. on the peculiar circumstances of the present case where the present respondent is admittedly already working as naib tehsildar, who has gained ample experience in the relevant field and he has got a strong case for appointment as tehsildar. we are otherwise of the opinion that the present petitioner i.e. federal public service commission, bitterly failed to prove their entity as an aggrieved party in the lis for that matter, the provincial government was indeed an aggrieved party whose leave to appeal has already been dismissed being hopelessly time barred. in the light of what has been discussed above, this petition merits nothing else than dismissal, which is accordingly ordered. announced .. chief