page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. civil appeal no. in cpla. no. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. shabir wali khan ghulam wali anaging director wali trade group pvt. ltd gilgit konodas near tablighi markaz and wali house no. muhallah yadgar chock khomar gilgit permanent address village hasis tehsil ishkoman district ghizer. dildar ahmed fazal ahmed director wali trade gro up pvt. ltd. gilgit majini muhallah district gilgit. col. amjad wali ghulam wali khan village hasis tehsil ishkoman district ghizer. dr. hussain ali medical officer health department gilgit baltistan, gilgit. petitioners. national bank of pakistan through its branch manager sost branch gilgit. respondent. leave to the impugned judgment decree dated .. the -baltistan chief court having jurisdiction of banking court. whereby the learned banking court has decreed the suit of plaintiff as prayed for. present: malik shafqat wali senior advocate for the petitioners. the deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit baltistan. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan. date of hearing: ... date of announcement of judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition has been arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan, wherein the learned chief court banking court vide .. directed the page petitioner to deposit the decreetal amount till ... the petitioner feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with impugned order filed leave to appeal for setting aside the impugned order. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent for their appearance. the case was fixed for hearing on .. and heard accordingly. baltistan. he requests to return this petition to the petitioner so as the same may be filed before the right forum in order to proceed with the matter in accordance with law. he further submits that this court has the authority to return the petition to he pe titioners in circumstances. he further submits that sufficient cause has been shown for condonation of delay, if any, as provided under section of the limitation act the appeal can be returned in order to file the same in a competent court of law so the matter may be decided on merits as well. he also submits that the petitioner have an arguable case on merit. the learned banking trial court has granted leave to defend to the petitioner whereafter on .. certain issues were framed and the matter was fixed on .. for recording of evidences. he also submits that the case was subsequently adjourned to .., wherein both the parties were present. but case was adjourned to .. without page recording the evidences, the par ties were present however he petitioner defendant requested for an adjournment which was declined. consequently, the defence of the petitioner defendant was struck of and the suit of the respondent plaint iff was decreed. the learned trial court conver ted it into execution proceedings. the petitioner defendant wer directed to deposit the decre tal amount upto ... he further submits that on .. the petitioner defendant appeared before the learned banking court who were directed to deposit the decre tal amount on ... the petitioner feeling aggrieved inadvertently filed constitutional leave to appeal in this court instead of filing appeal before the learned chief court. he finally prayed that this petition be ret urned to the petitioner enabling them to file appeal in the proper forum competent court of law. while submitting so he supports his contentions relying upon a case of mst. khadija begum mst. yasmeen others decided by the (pld sc ). on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent strongly opposed the contentions of the learned counsel for the petitioner and submits that the case may not be returned to the petitioner in order to file in competent courts of law as there is no provision for returning the petitions to the petitioner at this stage. the petitioner cannot take benefits of wrongly filing the petition in this court. he, however, submits that the petitioner page may withdraw unconditionally their petition. both the learned counsels for the respondent relied upon a case bolan bank limited capricorn enterprise private limited reported as scmr ). we have heard both the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned banking court as well as the case law referred by the learned counsel for the respective parties. the case law referred by the learned counsel for the respondent is distinguishable whereas the case law cited by the learned counsel for the petitioner is applicable. in our considered view that in absence of the specific provisi ons under civil procedure code for directing to return of the appeal for want of pecuniary ordinary appellate jurisdiction, the provision of section read with order rule cpc would be attracted. it is noted that order rule cpc deals with the return of plaint which provides procedure to be followed at the time of returning of the plaint whereas section () cpc lays down that appellate court shall have the same powers as shall perform as may be the same duties as are conferred by the cp on the courts of original jurisdiction in respect of suits instituted therein. the learned counsel for the petitioner has successfully persuaded us that the appeal filed in wrong forum can be returned to be filed in the competent appellate forum. in case the same is not page allowed, the petitioner legal heirs of the deceased would seriously prejudice and suffer ed an irreparable loss es injuries. in view of the above discussions we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. the original leave to appeal be returned to the petitioner enabling them to file the same in the competent court of law if so advised. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?