page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. muhammad din petitioner. mir baz others respondents. present: malik shafqat wali senior advocate alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. ali nazar khan advocate -on-record on behalf of the respondents. date of he aring: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned .. passed in writ petition no. by the learned chief court whereby the said writ petition filed by the respondent was accepted and the respondent no. to were directed to promote the respo ndent no. with back benefits as prayed for. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent a nd the case is heard today. briefly the facts of the case are that the respondent no. namely mir baz was appointed as driver mechanic bps on page ... whereafter he was promoted in bps and he was again promoted as dozer operator bps on .. whereas the petitioner was appointed as helper bps in the year later on he was promoted as dozer operator bps on ... whereafter the post of dozer operator was up -graded from bps to bps -. on .., the post of the peti tioner was re -designated as for eman bps vide office order no. -- admin later on, the petitioner was promoted as supervisor bps from for eman bps whereas the respondent no. being senior remained in bps since the respondent no. being aggrieved filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was allowed vide impugned ... the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for th petitioner submits that the work charge employees are not governed under civil servants act and rules he also submits that the promotion of petitioner to the post of supervisor bps from the post of foreman bps was in accordance with law. per learned counsel the post of foreman bps and supervisor bps fall in the same cadre and yard stick. he further submits that the respondent was holding the post of dozer operator bps but the post of dozer operator does not fall under the same cadre and yard stick with the post of supervisor bps -. he submits that the findings of the learned chief court have no sanction nexus with any provision of law. per page learned counsel the petitioner is very hard worker, honest, duty full and loyal to his duties a nd quite competent in his filed as ompare to the respondent no. the promotion of petitioner was made on the principle of his eligibility i.e. seniority -cum-fitness. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error by holding that re designation a nd further promotion of the petitioner was unjust based on malafidy and void ab -initio, while passing the impugned judgment which is not sustainable. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent no. supports the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. he contends that the respondent was senior to the petitioner as he was appointed as helper bps in the year whereas the petitioner was appointed in the year as helper bps-. he also contends that the official respondent have not considered the respondent for further promotion and he was discriminated. the respondent no. was co nstrained to file the writ petition which was accepted by the learned chief court. per learn ed counsel the re -designation of the post of the petitioner from foreman to supervisor bps was malafidy on part of the authorities of the pwd. he contends that since the respondent was discriminated, therefore, the learned chief court has rightly accept ed the writ petition of the respondent. he prays that the impugned judgment be affirmed being well reasoned and well founded. page we have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. admittedly, the respondent as senior to the petitioner having unblemished record who has been discriminated and deprived rom his fundamental right of promotion. the learned chief court has rightly accepted the writ petition filed by the respondent no. the learned counsel for the petitioner also could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the said impugned judgment. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. passed in writ petition no. by the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.