page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana mu hammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. ministry of kashmir affairs and gilgit -baltistan division islamabad others. petitioners. saeed gul another. respondent s. present:- ali nazar khan advocate -on-record, sudair khattak, deputy secretaries, ka gb division at islamabad for the petitioners. -on-record alongwith for the respondents. date of hearing: .. date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has been directed against the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the said writ petition filed by the respondent was allowed with the directions to the petitioner to appoint the respondent as section officers (bps -) in gilgit -baltistan council secretariat islamabad. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment of the learned chief court filed this appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal. page consequently, notices were issued to the respondent and the case was heard on ... briefly, the facts of the case are that the services of the respondent were posted transferred to the gilgit -baltistan council (referred herein as council) on deputation as section officer bps from the education departmen gilgit -baltistan and national database and registration authority (nadra) respectively. later on, the respondent submitted applications to the competent authorities to absorb their services in gilgit -baltistan council on permanent basis which was decli ned by the authorities of the council. consequently, the petitioner feeling aggrieved from the refusal of their plea filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court contending therein that they are entitled to be absorbed in gilgit -baltistan co uncil against the posts held by them on deputation basis. upon hearing, the writ petition of the respondent was allowed, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that respondent in their petition have co ncealed the facts of their being posted in the education department gilgit -baltistan and national database and registration authority (nadra) respectively before deputed in gilgit -baltistan council for a specific period. they cannot be absorbed on permanent basis only on the ground that they are the domiciled citizen of gilgit -baltistan and or they are holding the said posts on deputation basis. per learned counsel, he posts held page by the respondent are gazetted posts which can only be fulfilled on vacant posts by federal public service commission (fpsc) after conducting competitive examination on the basis of all pakistan quota. the respondent were posted in gilgit -baltistan council on their applica tion purely on political basis and they cannot be merged adjusted. the respondent no. namely sajid wali is the employee of national database and registration authority (nadra) and he does not fall in the category of civil servant at all, therefore, his claim to be inducted on permanent basis is baseless and illegal. no civil servant of a non -cadre post can be transferred posted or appointed inducted to a cadre post which is meant for recruitment through competitive process by fpsc. the deputationists ca only be inducted absorbed by the departments on need basis subject to fulfillment of essential legal codal formalities without affecting the service rights of the existing line officers officials. no individual can compel the department to get induct ed himself herself by violating the service rules. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error by allowing the writ petition on the basis of conceding statement of the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit. it is time and again has held that counsel can concede only on facts but not on law. he further submits that the comments on behalf of the petitioner in the learned chief court was not approved by the competent authority but it was maneuvered by the respondent with the collusion connivance with gilgit -baltistan page council staff officials. he submits that the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit is not a post office but he must have argued and give his independent point of view on legal prepositions as to whether the respondent who were on deputation in another department authority in lower grades can be transferred on their own applications as per rules laid down in the estacode. whereafter, they can be absorbed merged in gilgit -baltistan council on higher grade in bps -. the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit failed to perform his duties as law officer of the federation. he prays that the impugned order the learned chief court may raciously be set aside being passed contrary to the law and facts of the case. while saying so he relied upon a case law of the on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent contends that respondent applied for induction absorption as section officer on the basis of appointment by transfer being the citizen of gilgit -baltistan against the quota allocated for gilgit -baltistan in terms of 5th schedule of the gilgit baltistan (e mpowerment and self governance) order, the said application of the respondent was declined by the petitioners. they were discriminated as they had already inducted absorbed many officers of inland revenue from kpk in gilgit -baltistan council i.e. in the office of accountant general gilgit -baltistan page through appointment by transfer posting. both the said departments are attached department of gilgit -baltistan council. the respondent have not been treated equally amongst equals, hence, they were constra ined to file the writ petition in the learned chief court which upon hearing was rightly allowed. per learned counsel, the said writ petition has not only been allowed on the basis of no objection by the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilg it but the petitioner in their para -wise comments have also admitted that they have inducted absorbed many other officers officials on permanent basis. deputy secretary, gilgit -baltistan council who was posted transferred from the of fice of accountant general kpk to the council and his services have been inducted on permanent basis later on. similarly, one in the department of inland revenue gilgit -baltistan council. he contends that the impugned order is a consent order and no appeal can be filed against such consent decree order. he prays that the impugned order the learned chief court may pleased be maintained by dismissing the appeal iled by the petitioners. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record, gone through the impugned .. in writ petition no. page the learned chief court and the case law referred by the learned counsel for the petitioners. the perusal of the record transpires that the services of the respondent were transferred from the education department gilgit -baltistan and national database and registration authority (nadra respectively on transfer deputation basis. later on, the respondent made request for induction of their services into permanent footing which was declined by the competent authorities of the gilgit -baltistan council. the respondent claim ed for absorpti on induct ion on permanent basis in lieu of their deputation transfer as they are citizens of gilgit -baltistan and had vested right to be adjusted on permanent basis in gilgit -baltistan council. the competent authorities have to deal with their cases as per law and service rules. in view of the prescribed service rules law even otherwise such powers cannot be exercised by the competent authorities arbitrarily except in accordance with law. as per estacode that a person, who is transferred or appointed on deputation, must be a civil servant, and such transfer should be made through the process of selection. the borrowing government has to establish the exigency in the first place and then the person who is being transferred placed on transfer or deputation in government must have matching qualifications and expertise in the field with required experience. in absence of these conditions, the government department cannot appoint absorb or adjust anyone by transfer or page deputation to the civil serva nt without process of law and service rules. the case of mehdi hassan etc are not before us as such we do not want to discuss and comment their cases being past and closed chapter. we have also perused the relevant port ions of estacode i.e. si no. explanation of term deputation si no. of government servants -period of deputation, si no. -a delegation of power in regard to deputation of government servants, si no. deputation of government servant, si no. absorption of appointment. which are reproduced as under: quote si. explanation of the term deputationist deputation in pakistan: c.r.r. an officer is said to be in on deputation when he is detached on special temporary duty for the performance of which there is no permanently or temporary sanctioned appointment. according to the practice in vogue, a government servant begins to be regar ded as a deputationist when he is appointed or transferred, through the process of selection, to a post in a department or service altogether different from the one to which he permanently belongs, he continues to be placed in this category so long as he holds the new post in an officiating or a temporary capacity but cease to be regarded as such either on confirmation in the new post or on reversion to his substantive post. si no. deputation of government servants -period of deputation. maximum per iod of deputation: in continuation of establishment divisions circular d.o. letter no. i -r-i (a) (annex), conveying the directives of the prime minister requiring the period of appointment to be clearly specified in each case page of contract, secondment or deputation, the following policy is laid down for deputation of government servants: i. the normal period of deputation for all categories of government servants would be three years. this would be extendable by two years with the prior approva of the competent authority. ii. all cases of initial deputation of government servants holding posts in bps- and above would be referred to the establishment division for approval of the competent authority. the initial deputation in the case of government servants holding posts in bps and below would be approved by the secretary of the administrative concerned head of the department not below bps -. iii. the competent authority to grant extension in deputation beyond the initial period of three years, would be as below: a. government servants in bps head of the department. b. government servants in bps to secretary of the admin. ministry head of the department not blow bps -. c. government servants in bps to secretary of the admin. ministry concerned. d. cases of government servants in bps above would be referred to establishment division. iv. on the completion of the maximum period of five years, both the borrowing and the lending organizations should ensure immediate repatriation of the deputationist. v. in case it is not possible to repatriate a person to his parent organization for compelling reasons, the case should be referred to the establishment division before the expiry of the maximum period of five years fully ex plaining the circumstances due to which immediate repatriation is not possible and measures taken to obtain or groom a replacement as early as possible. the above policy would also be applicable to transfer on foreign service in terms of fr () and rules contained in chapter xii of the fundamental rules. ministers division are requested to bring these instructions to the notices of their attached departments subordinate offices corporations and autonomous bodies etc. the existing instruction on this subjec issued vide estt. divisions o.m no. -d.ii (cv), dated .. (si no. and o.m. no -r-, dated .. stand modified to the above extent. si no. -a page delegation of power in regard to deputation of government servants. in order to ensure expeditious proceeding of cases of deputation, the chief executive has been pleased to delegate to the secretaries of administrative ministers divisions and heads of attached departments and subordinate officers not below bps -. powers to appro ve initial deputation of officers up to bps belonging to cadres and posts under their administrative control for a period of three years. the above powers are subject to observance of the following guidelines: i. where a post proposed to be filled in res erved under the rules departmental promotion appointment on deputation may be made only if the department certifies that no eligible person is available for promotion or the eligible person is found unfit for promotion by the appropriate dpc selection board. in such cases deputation may be approved till such time a suitable person becomes available for promotion. ii. in case of posts reserved for initial recruitment, appointment on deputation may be made only as temporary arrangement, pending joining of the nominee of the fpsc, and subject to the condition that such appointment shall be made only after a requisition has been placed with the fpsc. iii. in cases where a post is tenable through appointment by deputation the normal period of deputation should be three years and no extension beyond three years may be allowed without prior approval of the establishment division. iv. no officer should be sent on deputation unless he has completed three years service in his parent department after return from an earlier deputation. si no. -b deputation of government servants. reference establishment division o.m. no. -d.ii r.i, dated .. (si no. as amended vide om of same no. dated .. (si no. -a) on the above subject. the term deputation as defined by the supreme court of pakistan vide pld sc means that a government servant begins to be regarded as deputationist when he is appointed or transferred through the process of selection to a post in a department or service altogether different the one to which he permanently belongs, he continues to be placed in this category so long as he holds the new post in an officiating or a temporary capacity but ceased to be regarded as such either on confirmation in the new post or on reversion to his substantive post. according to the judgment of federal service tribunal in appeals no. r) (cs) (m s) liaqat ali choudhry and others federation of pakistan, upheld by the supreme court of pakistan, as interpreted by the law, all the incumbents who are deputed to work in an agency foreign to the page service to which they belong, are entitled to draw deputation allowances. in view of the position stated above, the finance division have issued orders instructions vide their o.m. no. f. () stating that deputation allowance may be granted to all officers officials of ministries divisions departments who have been transferred and posted on deputation basis or under section of civil servants act to a post in a department or service altogether different from the one to which they permanently belong. in view of the above ministries divisions are advised that henceforth notifications orders issued by them regarding the deputation of their officers officials to a de partment office altogether different from the one which they actually belong must invariably states that: i. the incumbent will be entitled to deputation allowance. ii. the period of deputation shall be three years extendable by two years, with the approval of th competent authority. si. no. deputation period -absorption of deputationists. in constitution of establishment division o.m. of even no. dated (annex), it is stated that: i. the normal deputation period, for all categories grades of government servants shall be three years extendable for another two years with prior permission of the establishment division. a government servant shall not, however, remain on deputation to another government organization or an autonomous body corporations etc for more than five years. ii. if a person is on deputation to a government organization, and has complete the maximum tenure of five years, he must revert or be reverted by the borrowing office to his parent lending organization of the expiry of that period, othe rwise, the audit office concerned shall not make payment of salary and allowances to him beyond the date of expiry of five years, unless specifically authorized by the establishment division. iii. if a person is on deputation to an autonomous organization corp oration etc, and has completed the maximum tenure of five years, it will obligatory for that person to report back to his parent lending organization on the expiry that period irrespective of his being relieved by the borrowing corporation body etc, failur to report back unless specifically authorized otherwise by the establishment division will be construed as misconduct and make him liable to disciplinary action under the government servant (efficiency and discipline) rules, iv. in case a deputation ist is proposed to be absorbed permanently in the borrowing office (either a government organization or a corporation etc), such a proposal shall be initiated by the borrowing office atleast six months before the expiry of the deputation period of the depu tationist concerned. such a proposal, with the written page consent of the deputationist, shall be made by the borrowing office to the lending office (or parent office of the deputationist) which shall convey its decisions (if necessary, in consultation with th establishment division) to the borrowing office as well as the deputationist, by the expiry of the terms of his deputation. in the event of non acceptance of the proposal, the individual shall revert back to his parent office as indicated at () and () above. si no. deputation not a method appointment. reference establishment division o.m. no. d.ii r.i, dated .. (si no. ), wherein the normal period of the deputation for all categories of government servants had been fixed as three years, extendable by another two years with the prior approval of the competent authority. under the said instruction secretaries of the ministries divisions concerned were authorized to grant extension in deputation period beyond the initial period of three years in respect of government servants holding posts bps to bps -. it has been observed, however, that there is growing tendency to resolve to postings through deputationist despite the fact that deputation is not a normal prescribed method of appoint as under the civil servants (appointment, promotion and transfer) rule three methods of appointments are required to be made either by promotion or by initial appointment or by transfer. the method of appointment to post is also describ ed in the recruitment rules. filling up the posts through deputation, if not provided so in the recruitment rules, leads to following adverse implications: (i). in case of promotion posts, the promotions of departmental personnel are delayed stopped. (ii). in case the post is required to be filled through initial appointment, quota of a particular province is affected. page in order to bring the deputation policy in conformity with the present policy of postings and transfers circulated vide establishme nt division o.m. no. -r-, dated .., (si no. and also to discourage the increasing tendency of posting through deputation, it has been decided that, in future, the deputation period will be limited to three years only. a maximum two ye ars extension in the deputation period will be considered only in exceptional cases, in the public interest, and with the prior approval of the establishment division in all cases government servants in bps and above. the extension cases shall be forwa rded to the establishment division atleast six months before the expiry of the three -year deputation period and with proper justification for the proposal. however, no deputation proposals will be entertained which will adversely affect the method of appoi ntment to the post as laid down in the recruitment rules. accordingly all such proposals must invariably be accompanied by a formal assurance signed by atleast the joint secretary (admin) to that affect. ministries divisions are requested to also bring the se instructions to the notice of their attached department, subordinate offices, corporations, autonomous bodies, etc, under their administrative control, for guidance strict compliance. it may pleased be noted that arrangements have been made in consultat ion with the auditor general office whereby payment of emoluments etc, to those on deputation will be stopped forthwith, immediately following the completion of the three years deputation period, unless the establishment division prior approval has bee obtained and conveyed to the concerned audit circle. the existing instructions on this subject issued vide establishment division o.m. no. -d.ii r.i, dated .. (si no. ), stand modified to the above extent. unquote the learned ounsel for the petitioner also referred office memorandum no. -lit-iv dated .. issued by the government of pakistan, cabinet secretariat establishment division which is reproduced as under: page quote government of pakistan cabinet secretariat, establishment division no. -lit-iv. islamabad ... office memorandum. subject:- crl. original petition no. cma cma -k crl. mas --k -k -k cma crl-.mas. -k cma --k crl.mas -k cmas. -k to -k -k -k crl-ma. crlma. in crl.original petition no. scmr ). the undersigned is directed to say hat the .. on the subject petition clubbed with a number of other petitions and had ordered that a copy of this judgment be sent to all the chief secretaries of the provinces as well as the stablishment secretary with the directions to streamline the service structure of civil servants in line the principle in line with this judgment. it was expected that aforementioned judgment was down loaded by all ministries divisions for compliance. however, for the sake of convenience the following guidelines principles are highlighted:- the a civil servant, who after passing the competitive exam in terms of the recruitments rules on merits, loses his right to be considered for promotion, when an employee from any other organization is absorbed without completing or undertaking competitive process with the backdated seniority and is conferred the status of a civil servant in omplete disregard of recruitment rules. (ii). absorption of a non civil servant conferring on him the status of a civil servant and likewise absorption of a civil servant from non cadre post to a cadre post without undertaking the competitive process under the recruitment rules. page (iii). introduction of any validation law in the nature of multiple or parallel legislation on the subject of service law. (iv). benefit of absorptions extended since with or without backdated seniority are declared ultra vir es of the constitution. (v). the re -employment rehiring of the retired civil government servants being violative of the constitution are declared nullity. the apex court of pakistan has further held that: (a). non-civil servant can be transferred an appointed by way of deputation to any cadre. the procedure provided under estacode has been approved by the supreme court of pakistan in the case of muhammad arshad sultan. (b). no civil servant of a non -cadre can be transferred out of cadre to be absorbed to a cadre post which is meant for recruitment through competitive process. (c). the procedure provided under estacode requires that a person who is transferred and appointed on deputation must be a govt servant and such transfer should be made hrough the process of selection. the borrowing govt has to establish the exigency in the first place and then the person who is being transferred placed on deputation in govt must have matching qualification, expertise in the field with required experience. (d). an employee holding a post under any authority or corporation, body or organization established by or under nay provincial or federal law or which is owned or controlled by federal or provincial government or in which federal government or provinci al government has controlling share or interest could not be conferred status of a civil servant. (e). it is settled principle of law that if the right of a promotion is not blocked by re -employment then such powers can be exercised, then too in exceptio cases for a definite period. besides it violates the fundamental rights of the serving civil servants, on account of such rehiring on contract are deprived of their legitimate expectancy of promotion to a higher cadre, which is violative of the provision of articles of the constitution. (f). the absorption and out of turn promotion will also impinge on the self respect and dignity of the civil servants, who will be forced to work under their rapidly and unduly promoted fellow officers, those who have been inducted from other services cadres regardless of their (inductees) merit and results in the competitive exam (if they have appeared for exam at all ), hence, are violative of the article of the constitution. (g). principle of locus poen tentiae is the power of receding till a decisive step is taken but it is not a principle of law that order once passed becomes irrecoverable and past and page closed transaction. if the order is illegal then perpetual rights cannot be gained on the basis of an illegal order. (h). any backdated seniority cannot be granted to any absorbee and his inter -se-seniority, on absorption in the cadre shall be maintained at the bottom as provided under the rules regulating the seniority. all ministries divisions and epartment organization under them are requested to comply with the judgment of the apex court in letter and spirit. --sd-- muhammad shakeel malik joint secretary all ministries divisions. unquote in pursuance of the aforementioned case law and office memorandum thereto relied upon by the learned counsel for the petitioners, admittedly, the respondent no. has not gone through the process as laid down in the said judgment and or as provided under relevant service rules law. he was an assistant in lower grade in education department gilgit -baltistan cannot be merged or adjusted in higher grade. neither is qualifications experience are matching with the criteria fixed for the post of section officer (bps-) nor his appointme nt has been made through the process of selection. he has got no vested rights to be absorbed inducted in lieu of his transfer or on deputation on his own application. likewise, the respondent no. namely sajid wali son of nusrat wali, being an employee of an authority on deputation does not even fall in the definition of a civil servant; hence, his transfer posting on deputation his subsequent absorption adjustment is illegal. in our considered view, the page transfer of both the respondent in gilgit -baltistan council whereafter their absorption adjustment in bps is illegal, void ab-initio and without lawful authority. the impugned order the learned chief court is not sustainable being passed contrary to the service rules law. the case law eferred by the learned counsel for the petitioner is applicable. in view of the above discussions, this appeal was allowed by setting aside the impugned .. passed in writ petition no. by the learned chief court vide our short ... these were the reasons for the said short order this court. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.