page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. chief secretary chairman natco others petitioner s. ali madad haydari respondents. present: the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general for the petitioners. (respondent) is present in person. date of hearing short order: ... date of detailed judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil petition has been directed against the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the said writ petition filed by the respondent was accepted. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment filed this leave to appeal. consequently, this court issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court under article of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, page seeking cancellation of letter dated .. issued by petitioner no. i.e. general manger, admin personal (natco) gilgit -baltistan wherein the contract service of the respondent was terminated. upon hearing the learned chief court was pleased to accept the said writ petition, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that the respondent was initially appointed as assistant traffic manager (atm) at astore vide office .. on contract basis for a peri od of months. he also submits that according to the above contract employment, the respondent had to perform duty anywhere in pakistan including gilgit -baltistan with a salary of it was held in the para of above terms that on expiry of said contract period the respondent shall stand terminated. he further submits that he services of the respondent was not terminated rather it was extended up to .. and the salary of the respondent was also enhanced from to per month. per learned advocate general, on the basis of another .., the contract services of the respondent as assistant traffic manager natco astore was further extended with effect from .. for further months. whereafter he service of the respondent were extended from time to time till .. wherein the salary of the respondent was again increased from to per month vide order no. ho pf dated ... he submits that the services of the responden were no more required to the petitioners. page as per terms and conditions of the contract employment, no notice was required at the time of termination of contract. the respondent, therefore, has no locus standi to file the writ petition in the learned chief court. the learned chief court fell in error in entertaining and accepting the said writ petition filed by the respondent, hence, the impugned judgment is not sustainable. he prays that the said impugned judgment may graciously be set aside. the learn ed counsel and advocate -on-record for the respondent is not in attendance today inspite of notices served upon them. he submits that in pursuance of the order of the learned chief court although he has been granted of his salary whereas has yet not been paid to him which may graciously be ordered to be paid to him. we have heard the learned advocate general and the respondent at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment the learned chief court. the learned advocate general could not point out any illegality or infirmity in the said impugned judgment. in view of the abov no interference in the impugned judgment is warranted by this court. this petition is converted into an appeal and the same was dismissed vide our short ... consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned page chief court is affirmed. these were the reasons of our said short order. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?