page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. mst. shehla batool others petitioner s. mst. amrood begum others respondents. present: rehmat ali advocate -on-record for the petitioners. -baltistan. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil revision filed by the respondent no. was accepted by restraining the official respondent to make appointment of any of the parties or any other person against the suit posts. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisf ied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. page briefly the facts of the case are that the respondent filed a civil suit no. for declaratio etc alongwith an application for temporary injunction under order rule cpc in the court of learned civil upon hearing the learned trial court dismissed the application for temporary injunction vide .. which was upheld by the learned first appellate court astore vide ... the respondent being aggrieved preferred civil revision no. before the learned chief court which was allowed, hence, this leave to appeal. the lear ned counsel for the petitioner submits that the education department gilgit -baltistan advertised certain posts of elementary school teachers (est) bps only for permanent residents of villages gutumsir. he also submits that the petitioner and responden ts no. appeared in the test interview who secured highest marks in the said test interview and placed on top of the merit list. per learned counsel prior to their appointment selection the petitioner submitted their complete documents includin permanent residence certificate (prc) duly issued by the competent authorities which was one of the pre requisite codal formalities for being eligible for the said posts. he submits that the respondent filed a civil suit no. for declaration etc alongwith an application for temporary injunction under order rule cpc in the court of learned civil .. which was upheld by the learned first appell ate court astore vide ... the respondent being aggrieved preferred civil revision no. before the learned chief court which was allowed. per learned counsel the learned chief court fell in error while passing the said impugne order, hence, the same is not tenable and liable to be set aside. he prays that the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court may graciously be set aside to meet the ends of justice. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court. he contends that since the eligibility of the petitioner has to be determined by the learned trial court, therefore, it is essential that the appointments of the petitioner be restrained in order to avoid any financial loss to the government exchequer in case of non eligibility of the petitioner for the said post on the basis of their permanent residence certificate (prc). per learned counsel the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded being passed in accordance with law and facts of the case, hence, the same is required to be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil revision no. page the learned chief court. admittedly, not only the petitioner have been adversely affected but also the academic activities of the school have been disturbed due to non -availability of teachers by reversing the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court. the government functionaries can not be stopped to pass the administrative orders in order to run the affairs of school in public interest at large. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court is set aside by maintaining the concurrent findings of the two courts below. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.