page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. khalid mehmood others petitioners. provincial govt. others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has been directed against the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed being meritless, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case is heard today. succinctly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner have been working as contingent paid staff agai nst various posts at the strength of governor gilgit -baltistan since the petitioner contended that they are working against the regular posts and they seek for the conversion of their services into regular footing. page the learned counsel for the etitioners submits that the petitioner are entitled to be regularized against the posts held by them keeping in view their satisfactory long services as contingent employees in line to the office memorandum dated .. issued by the cabinet secretari at establishment division islamabad. he also submits that at the time of their contingent appointment, the petitioner were assured by the respondent to adjust them on regular basis as soon as the regular posts are sanctioned. per learned counsel, the lea rned chief court failed to appreciate the facts of the case hile passing the impugned order, hence, the same is not sustainable. he prays that the impugned order may graciously be set aside by accepting this appeal. on the other hand, the learned advocate general appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned order the learned chief court. he contends that the petitioner are working purely on contingent basis and there is no policy to regularize the contingent services into reg ular service. per learned advocate general, the petitioner have no vested right to claim for conversion of their posts into regular service. he submits that he writ petition filed by the petitioner in the learned chief court was not maintainable and meritless, the same has rightly been dismissed in circumstances. he prays that the impugned order may pleased be by upheld. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through page the imp ugned order the learned chief court. since the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any infirmity in the impugned order, hence, no interference into it is warranted by this court. in view of the above discussions, we dismis this appeal by upholding the impugned order passed the learned chief court. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.