page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. civil revision. no. in smc no. (pension of ex -chief present: the deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit baltistan. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan. dated of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this civil review petition has been directed against the .. in smc. no. this apex court in case titled pension of ex -chief in gblr to examine as to whether the same was in line with the supreme court of pakistan. whereby, this court has adopted that the remuneration and terms and conditions of judges of supreme court of pakistan are governed by the supreme court judges (leave, pension and privileges) order, president order no. of the above order has been adopted with certain modifications by the supreme appellate court in a full court meeting held on .. vide notification of even date and the same has been incorporated in the impugned judgment but some modifications are not in consonance with the order of and hence repugnant to art icle () of gilgit -baltistan page (empowerment self governance) order, which are reproduced as under: the of president order of are entitled to the benefit of the services of a driver and an orderly, whereas, the impugned judgment entitles the (bps -) and a contingent employee (bps of his choice, which is not in line with the supreme court of pakistan. therefore, the following paragraph incorporated at page may plea se be omitted to meet the ends of justice. notwithstanding the privileges contained on p.o. no. of chief -baltistan on completion of tenure will be authorized to engage the services of personal assistant bps- and a contingent employee bps of his choice within the allocated budget of the court the judges of supreme court of pakistan are entitled to use a vehicle of the engine capacity of cc and another car for use of their families du ring their tenure of office is also provided to them. they can purchase only one car of the engine capacity of cc on his retirement. whereas, a on expiry of his tenure vide corrigendum dated .., has been made entitled for purchase of a car vehicle in his use or from pool of the court without of any engine capacity, on payment of depreciated book value, it is therefore, required that on retirement, a .. issued by ministry of law, government of pakistan to avoid inconsistency between article () of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, and the judgm ent at page para note (b). it is, therefore, necessary that para (b) at page of the judgment may kindly be omitted. the territory of gilgit -baltistan is governed by the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, order, and the -baltistan council is the appointing authority of the gilgit -baltistan subject to consultation with the gilgit -baltistan. para of the above notification at page of the impugned judgment under the heading authority competent to grant leave provides as under. page authority competent to grant leave. the authority ompetent to grant leave or refus leave, or to revoke or curtail leave already granted, shall, in the case of chief in the case of judges, the chief justice. keeping in view the special circumstances of gilgit -baltistan and the spirit of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) rder, the word president needs to be replaced with governor gilgit baltistan in view of the above discussions we hold as under: the of president order of are entitled to the benefit of the services of a personal assistant bps a driver and an orderly. the judges of supreme court of pakistan are entitled to use a vehicle of the engine capacity of cc and another car for use of their families during their tenure of office is also provided to them. they can purchase only one car of the engine capacity of cc on his retirement. whereas, a .., has been made entitled for purchase of a car vehicle in his use or from pool of the court without of any engine capacity, on payment of depreciated book value, it is therefore, required that on retirement, a .. issued by ministry of law, government of pakistan to avoid page inconsistency between article () of gilgit -baltistan (empow erment self governance) order, that the special circumstances of gilgit -baltistan and the spirit of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, the word president shall stand replaced with governor gilgit -baltistan consequently, this review petition is allowed and the .. in smc. no. this apex court shall stand reviewed in above terms. the review petition is allowed. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?