page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. -ud-din, judge. judge. civil appeal no in cpla no. ghulam nabi dadu sikandarabad nagar. haji bashir hamza. haji muhammad ali shafiyo rat al hoper tehsil nagar no. district hunza nagar. petitioner defendants. mst. gul najaf mst. najaf gul mst. jannat gul late ibrahim hoper ratal tehsil and district hunza nagar. respondent plaintiff. rizwan ali ramzan ali ratal hoper tehsil nagar no. district hunza nagar. mst. shorban late khudayar. mst. hajira khatoon. mst. zakia khatoon. mst. iqra mst. saleema muhammad abbas daughter and son of late khudayar through next fiend their real brother of rizwan ali rizwan ali son of late khudayar hoper tehsil nagar no. district hunza nagar. proforma respondents. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan empowerment and self governance order against the impugned judgment order of learned single baltista dated -- wherein the learned single -- wherein the learned district --. for setting aside both the impugned judgment decrees of learned single -- and judgment decree of district -- by maintaining the judgment decree the learned civil -- to meet the ends of justice. present: malik shafqat wali, senior advocate on behalf of the petitioners. advoca te for the respondents. date of hearing: --. judgement. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj the learned sr. advocate for the petitioner contended that the petitioner defendant were the real owners of the suit property and the disputed property is in their possession. he further contended that a civil suit no. was filed by the plaintiff before the civil which upon hearing and framing as many as issues was dismissed vide .., with cost. feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the order .., the learned civil nagar in civil suit no. the plaintiff respondent fi led civil first appeal in the court of learned district the learned first ap pellate court after hearing accepted the appeal of the respondent plaintiff vide its .., in cfa no. holding that the respondent ere equally entitled for inheritance in the propert left by their late father. the learned appellate court further observed that muhammad ibrahim died at the age of years and he was dump, duff and also insane. the petitioner namely ghullam nabi could not produce any witness with regard to the gift dead executed in the year in his favour. page the respondent feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied by the with the order .. the learned additional district before the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan with the prayer that the order .., the learned additional district -aside by accepting their revision petition and the order .., the learned trial court may be maintained. upon hearing, the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan dismissed the said revision petition with cost declaring the same as meritless and not maintainable and maintained the i mpugned .. the learned additional district the learned counsel for the petitioner further contended that he petitioner feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the order .., the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan filed this leave to appeal before this apex court for setting aside the said impugned judgment as well as the .., in cfa no. the lear ned additi onal district he further contends that the ju dgment dated .., the learned civil be maintained. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent submi tted that the impugned .., the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan, in civil revision no. as well as .., in cfa page no. the learned additional district he further submits that the .., the learned civil has rightly been reversed by the both the learned court below being against the facts and law. we have heard both the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the record of case file and gone through the impugned judgments of all the three courts below. in our considered view, the impu gned judgment da ted, .., the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan as well as the .., the learned additional district the same are therefore, maintained and hold that the learned first appellate court rightly reversed the judgment in civil suit no. dated .., the learned civil we accordingly converted the petition into an appeal and dismissed by short .. and these were the reasons for it dismissal. the appeal is dismissed. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?