page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. abdullah jan others petitioners. mohsin ali respondent. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the civil revision no. filed by the respondent was partially allowed by setting aside the .. the learned istrict consequently, the .. the learned trial court was maintained, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent filed a civil suit no. alongwith an application under order rule cpc read with section cpc for grant temporary injunction in the court of learned civil however, plaintiff was declared entitled for half inch radius water connection vide .. which was reversed by the learned district the respondent being aggrieved filed civil revision in the learned chief court. upon hearing the said revision was partially accepted by setting aside the order of the learned district the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the impugned judgment the learned chief court and the .. the learned civil he also submits that the plaintiff has not prayed the said relief in his plaint, hence, the same is beyond the prayer and contention of the plaintiff. per learned counsel, the impugned judgment is not sustainable. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment and the order of the learned trial court. he contends that the respondent is one of the inhabitants of the locality who has developed an orchard on his land. per learned counsel, the respondent is entitled for one and half inch radius pipe as per agreement and this relief has been prayed by the respondent in his plaint. the learned trial court has rightly granted the said relief to the plaintiff respondent which was wrongly reversed by the learned district judge. he contends that the learned chief court passed the impugned judgment in page consonance with the law and facts of the case. he prays that the impugned judgment may graciously be upheld. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugn ed judgment as well as the orders of the learned courts below. in our considered view, the impugned judgment is well reasoned, therefore, no indulgence is warranted into it. further, the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegalit infirmity in the said impugned judgment. in view of the above discussions, we dismiss this appeal by maintaining the impugned .. the learned chief court. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.