page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. muhammad hussain others petitioners. malik ashdar others respondents. present: malik ashdar respondent no. is present in person. date of hearing: ... date of announcement of judgment: .. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this civil appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan whereby the said civil revision filed by the respondent was accepted by setting aside the concurrent findings of the courts below, hence, this appeal. this court vide order ated .. granted leave to appeal. the notices were issued to the respondent and the case was heard on ... briefly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner plaintiff filed, civil suit no. and for declaration and po ssession of the suit land measuring kanal in the court of learned civil (s) decreed in their favour. as per contentions of the plaintiff petitioner the said land was in their possession. page they also contended that the respondent defendant be restrained from forceful dispossession from the land in question which was upheld by learned first appellate court on appeal through its ... the respondent being aggrieved by and dissatis fied with the concurrent findings of the courts below preferred civil revision appeal no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was accepted by setting aside the judgments decrees of the two courts below. the learned counsel filed writt en arguments stating therein that the learned trial court has decreed the suit of the petitioner after framing as many as issues i ncluding two additional issues. the petitioner plaintiff have successfully proved their case through documentary as well as oral evidence. per learned counsel, the possession of the disputed land remained with the plaintiff petitioner after the death of their father till institution of the suit being the inherited land. during the pendency of the said civil suit, the posse ssion was forcibly taken by the respondents. the disputed land was allotted and given to the father of the petitioner in return of his service to look after the water channel which was proved by the plaintiff by pws namely ali muhammad, mastan ali and hai der ali. he submits that the concurrent findings the two courts below were wrongly set aside by the learned chief court which is not tenable in law and liable to be set aside. he submits that the learned trial co urt framed as many as page the followi ng issues including issue no. as additional issues: i. whether the suit of the plaintiff is not maintainable under the law? ii. whether the plaintiff has no locus standi and cause of action against the defendants? iii. whether the suit of the plaintiff is liable to be dismissed on non-joinder of necessary parties? iv. whether the suit of the plaintiff is based on malafide hence not maintainable? v. whether the plaintiff are owners of the suit land under law? vi. whether the plaintiff are impo ssession of suit land for three generations and the irrigating channels was dug by the grandfather of the defendants? vii. whether the suit land is impossession of the defendant from the time to their grandfather and the defendant planted tree on it with the help of akrsp? viii. whether the defendant developed the land by investment? additional issues ix. whether the defendant dispossessed the plaintiff from the suit land after issuance of status quo from the court and whether the plaintiff are enti tled to get possession of suit land from the defendants? x. whether the suit is within time? the learned trial court decided the above issues as under: issue no. the defendant and their counsel did not produce any specific law or provisions on this issue. the suit in hand is filed for page declaration and possession of suit land on the ground of ownership. civil suit for declaration with consequential relief may be fil ed before civil court for determination of rights between the parties. after perusal of record the malafidy of the plaintiff is not appeared. hence these issues are disproved. issue no. the pl aintiffs filed the suit for declaration and possession of suit land on the ground of ownership and claimed that the suit land is their ancestral property. the plaintiff claimed the ownership on the footings of their father hence they have locus standi against the defendants, when the defendant denied the rights of the plaintiff in suit land than the plaintiff can file suit against the defendants. defendant did not provide any material before the court to prove this issue, hence this issue is disproved. issue no. it is a well settled law that a suit cannot be dismissed on non-joinder or mis -joinder of parties. defendant no. did not say a single word in his statement neither their counsel raised any point in his written arguments on this issue, hence this issue is disapproved. issue no. the plaintiff had to prove this issue. the defendant no. stated in his statement that the suit property was given to their father for his services to look after and repairing of the irrigating channel constructed on that locality. this version of the plain tiffs is supported by the pws namely ali muhammad and mastan ali and haider ali in their statements. two pws namely ali muhammad and haider ali are the proprietors of the adjacent land and also watering their land from that channel. they further stated tha the plaintiff father looked after the water channel till his death. defendant could not produce any evidence to rebut the versions of page the plaintiffs. defendant witness namely lambardar mast ali also admitted during cross examination that the suit lan was given to muhammad ali (plaintiff father) against his services (to look after and repairing of channel). all the three witnesses did not say any single word about the rights of the defendant on suit land, hence, plaintiff are succeeded to prove th is issue. issue no. the defendant attorney and their all three witnesses categorically stated that the defendant planted trees with the help of akrsp on the disputed land and also received rs. from akrsp as remuneration in the year the defendant stated that the irrigation channel was dug by their grandfather. the all plaintiff witnesses and defence witnesses agreed admitted that the channel was initially constructed by the grandfather of the defendant and few other persons to irrigate their lands as regard the possession of the land all the defence witnesses stated in their statements that the defendant are in possession of the disputed land at this time or since all the three defence witnesses did not say any singl word that the disputed land is in possession of the defendant from their father or grandfather era. the defendant could not prove their possession of the land from three generation. they are in possession of suit land since or from a later stage. hence, these issues are partially proved to the extent of defendant possession since and last part of issue no. is proved (to the extent of planting trees with help of akrsp is proved). although defendant have proved these issued partially but these facts did not give any right of title on suit property to the defendants. issue no. the defendant claimed that they have developed the disputed land by investment. the defence witnesses namely page suleman and mast ali in cross examination that there was no tree existed at the time when the defendant planted there with the help of akrsp. the witness namely mast ali further authenticated that the suit land was barren three years ago. the defendant could not produce sufficient evidence before the court to prove this issue. hence disapproved. issue no. the plaintiff stated that they were in possession of suit land after death of their father till institution of the suit. during pendency of the suit the plainti ffs have been disposed by the defendant by force. the plaintiff no. submitted an application before the assistant commissioner on .. and stated there that the defendant are trying to dispose the plaintiff from the land. the plaintiff witnes namely ramzan ali stated that the defendant are in possession of the suit land for years, his statement is recorded on .. the witness namely haider ali stated in cross examination that the suit property is in possession of the defendant si nce on the other side all the defence witnesses stated that the defendant planted on the disputed land with the help of akrsp in the year and they are silent about the possession of the suit land before after above discussion on this i ssue the learned trial court has come to the conclusion that the plaintiff have been illegally dispossessed by the defendant in the year during pendency of the suit. hence, this issue is proved. issue no. plaintiff field the present suit for declaration and permanent injunction on .. and filed amended plaint on .. and sought possession of the land when the defendant dispossessed the plaintiff from the suit land during pendency of suit. th cause of action against the defendant on suit land firstly page arose on when the defendant denied the plaintiff right on suit land and lastly when the plaintiff have been dispossessed from the land in the year the suit of the plaintiff is well in time under articles of the limitation act which provides a period of twelve years to file suits. hence, this issue is proved. in view of the above, the learned trial court was pleased to hold that the petitioner plaintiff were succ eeded to prove their right of ownership on the suit property. consequently, the civil suit was decreed in their favour and against the respondents. the learned first appellate court after hearing, dismissed the appeal filed by the respondent holding it wa without merits. consequently, the judgment decree of the learned trial court was maintained. the learned chief court upon hearing the revision petition reversed the concurrent findings of two courts below as the same were passed on non -reading and misrea ding of the evidence on record and the respondent have bitterly failed to prove issue no.. conversely, the respondent also filed written arguments who strongly refuted the contentions of the petitioner plaintiffs. as per averments of the responden ts, the suit property is owned and possessed by their family for three generation and they have dug constructed the water channel to irrigate the said land. they have developed the said land by planting thousand of trees etc by the help of ag a khan rural upport program (akrsp). they submit that the petitioner plaintiff have miserly failed to prove their dispossession by the respondents. the witnesses produced by the page respondent have deposed in the learned trial court that they were in possession of the isputed land since three generation. according to the respondent that the two courts below failed to apply their judicial mind while passing the judgment whereas the impugned judgment learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded. they rayed that the same may pleased be maintained. we have gone through the written arguments of the respective parties as well as the impugned judgment and the judgments of the learned courts below. the perusal of impugned judgment the learned hief court transpires that it has been passed only on two issues i.e. the issue no. relating to the possession and limitation only whereas the learned trial court and learned first appellate court have discussed all the ten issues in detail and pas sed its judgments on the ownership title etc. in our considered view, the impugned judgment is the result of misconception of law and misreading non -reading of the evidence of the case, hence, the same is not sustainable whereas the judgments he learned trial court and learned first appellate court are well reasoned and have a legal force. in view of the above discussion, we allow this appeal. consequently, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the earned chief court is set aside by upholding the .. in civil first appeal no. the learned additional district .. in civil suit no. learned civil the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief