page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. sher zaman son of hameedullah khan resident of gurunjur punial district ghizer respondent. present: the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general for the petitioner s. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil petition has been directed against the impugned .. in service appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan ser vice tribunal whereby the said service appeal filed by the respondent was accepted by declaring the respondent entitled for pay allowances under office .. petitioner no. and cancelled the advertisement of the post of udc bps- at government boys high chool hatoon ghizer. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide page .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent was appointed on .. as ldc bps on contract by the director education gilgit -baltistan against the vacant post at boys high school single for a period of six () months with immediate effect. consequently, the pay of the respondent was adjusted on .. against a vacant post of ldc bps at directorate of education gilgit -baltistan with effect from .. till his proper adjustment in district ghizer. whereafter the education depart ment gilgit -baltistan constituted a special recruitment committee to prove the eligibility and suitability of incumbents who were appointed without fulfilling the requisite codal formalities i.e. advertisement and test interview etc. consequently, not ices were issued to all such incumbents on .. including the respondent to appear before the said committee on ... the respondent appeared before the committee in question and he was declared fi for the post against which he was already app ointed alongwith incumbents out of he was transferred from directorate of education gilgit baltistan to district ghizer and appointed against the vacant post of udc bps at high school hatoon punial ghizer vide office ... in the month of june, the said post was advertised in local newspaper by the education department gilgit -baltistan against which the respondent was already page appointed and his such appointment order was is intact. the petitioner has paid pay and allowanc es to the respondent w.e.f. .. to ... the respondent feeling aggrieved with the said advertisement filed service appeal no. in the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal which upon hearing was accepted vide impugned judgment, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that the respondent had no locus standi to file the service appeal in the learned service tribunal which has wrongly been entertained and accepted. he also submits that the respondent was initially appointed as an ldc bps on .. purely on contract basis without completing the requisite codal formalities of the service rules. on .. the respo ndent was transferred from boys high school singul to directorate of education gilgit -baltistan against the vacant post of ldc bps -. on .. he was again transferred from directorate of education gilgit -baltistan to high school hatoon against the acant post of udc bps but the respondent drawing his pay as ldc -bps- against the post of udc bps at high school hatoon ghizer. later on, the said post of udc bps was to be filled in through advertisement and for that purpose advertisement was is sued in june, against which the respondent filed service appeal before gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. per learned advocate general, the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal without taking into consideration the page facts, law and maintainability of the appeal, accepted the said service appeal, cance lled the advertisement and declared respondent entitled for pay allowances under office ... he submits that the learned service tribunal fell in error by accepting the appeal of th respondent, hence, the same is not sustainable. he prays that the impugned judgment the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal may graciously be set aside. we have heard the learned advocate general at length, perused the material on rec ord and gone through the impugned judgment. admittedly the respondent was appointed on contract as an ldc (bps -). whereafter he was qualified keep ing in view his higher qualification by the special recruitment committee constituted by the petitioners. in our considered view, the impugned judgment the learned service tribunal is well reasoned as the learned advocate general also could not point out any infirmity or illegality in to it. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petiti on into an appeal and the same is dismissed. the impugned .. in service appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal is maintained, however, the same is modified that the respondent shall be adjusted an placed in bps-. the petitioner would be at liberty to advertise the vacant post(s) in bps and may fill in the said post(s) as already advertised. the respondent shall be entitled for payment of salary page allowances from the date he joins duty. the on-serving period will be considered as leave without pay. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.