page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. jan alam others respondent s. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the said writ petition filed by the respondent was allowed by directing the petitioner to pass offi ce orders of appointments of respondent against the suit posts, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the resp ondents filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court contending therein that they appeared in test and interview for the advertised posts of foot constables in police department gilgit baltistan. the petitioner defended the plea of the respo ndents that page all the advertised posts were filled in from the qualified candidates and remaining including the respondent were kept in waiting list. on availability of posts, the candidates from waiting list i.e. from serial no. to were appointed. no further posts have been sanctioned and approved for appointment till date. the appointment of the respondent (from waiting list) were not made due to non -availability of vacant posts. the learned chief court, however, upon hearing allowed the writ pe tition by directing the petitioner to pass office orders of appointments of respondent against the suit posts, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that the respondent have no locus standi to file the writ etition in the learned chief court. he submits that he impugned order is on the basis of photo copy produced by respondent whereas in the photo copies, it is clearly mentioned that process for approval was initiated but not proved, hence, no post remaine available. he also submits that the learned chief court without considering the above facts regarding non availability of posts and implication of financial constraints accepted the writ petition in suit posts. per learned advocate general, the said phot copies produced by the respondent are were not admissible as a piece of evidence. he further submits that as per averments of the respondent in their writ petition that the process of approval of more posts is under consideration which is itself an admitted fact that no posts have been approved so far. he submits that the learned chief court did page not consider the aforementioned facts while passing the impugned .. and the same is not sustainable. he prays that the said impugned order may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned order the learned chief court. he contends that he respondent after qualifying the test and interview conducted by the petitioner were placed in the waiting list notified by respondents. per learned counsel, vide office .., the petition ers appointed persons as foot constables whereas candidates were place on the waiting list. out of candidates from waiting list from serial no. to were appointed against another vacant post s. he contends that more vacancies have again fallen vacant in the department. on .., the respondent filed an application to inspector general of police gilgit -baltistan for issuance of appointment orders. he further contends that upon receiving such applica tion, the petitioner(s) sought report from the department who submitted its report on .. stating therein that posts of constables are lying vacant in district diamer. an office note was put for approval but the same is still awaiting. he contend that the respondent have been running from pilla rs to posts for redressal of their grievances. the petitioner (s) refused to issue appointment orders. he submits that the learned chief court has rightly accepted the writ petition of the respondent s. he rays that the page impugned order the learned chief court may pleased be maintained to meet the ends of justice. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the materials on record and gone through the impugned order the learned chief court. we are in agreement with the contentions raised by the learned advocate general. in our considered view, the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned order which is not tenable in law. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is set aside. the respondent s, however, may approach the competent court of law for redressal of their grievances, if they so advised. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.