page (judgment of dilbar khan pg) in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit chief chief (for reviewing .. in cpla no. dilbar khan sultan ali eidgah, tehsil district astore petitioner prov. government of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary, gb secretary home, gilgit -baltistan secretary services, gilgit -baltistan deputy commissioner astore assistant commissioner sdm hq astore district accounts officer, agpr astore respondent present: for the petitioners: advocate for the respondents: the advocate general, gilgit -baltistan date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: through the above review petition no. counsel for the petitioner seeks review of .. this court in cpla no. whereby .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal in service appeal no. was maintained by dismissing the above cpla filed by the petitioner. the petitioner, while working as naib qasid in assistant commissioner hq astore, was retired from service w.e.f. .. on the basis of service record of the petitioner. contrarily, the petitioner claims that as per his date of birth, his retirement was due on january, page (judgment of dilbar khan pg) to this effect, he submitted applications to the competent authority, but to no avail. being aggrieved an dissatisfied with the impugned retirement order issued by the respondent no. (deputy commissioner astore), the petitioner filed a civil suit no. before th learned civil the suit appears to have remained pending adjudication before the learned civil consequent upon establishment of the learned service tribunal, the said suit stood abated and transferred to service tribunal which culminated into service appeal no. which was dismissed. judgment of the learned service tribunal was assailed before this court by way of a cpla, mentioned hereinabove, which too met the same fate, hence the review petition in hand. the scope of review as provided in the rules of this court does not allow us to go into deeper appreciation of facts and grounds. however, we observed that, somehow, one important aspect of the matter has been overlooked by this court while dilating upon the facts and grounds of the cpla i.e. after issuance of ret irement order, the concerned department should have stopped pay and allowances of the petitioner and should not have taken duty from the petitioner till final decision of his service appeal. contrarily, the department took duty from the petitioner by paying him regular monthly salary till the date of superannuation as claimed to be so by the petitioner and now after the decision against the petitioner, the department tends to recover the pay and allowan ces from the pension commutation of the petitioner for the period he performed duty after ... the fault rests with the department and it would be against the natural it would also be against the injunctions of isl am to let a worker to work without reward and would also come into the ambit of forced labour. every government servant is tied with the hope of getting pension commutation page (judgment of dilbar khan pg) after putting his life into services of the government. in case of recovery of pay and allowance from the petitioner, though for no fault of his, he will have no option but to go to home with empty hand s. in view of what has been discussed above, we modify the .. this court in cpla no. to the extent that no recovery shall be effected from the petitioner for the period he has performed duty after .. (date of retirement as per office order no. acctt -() dated ..). however, he period from .. shall not be reckoned for the purpose of calculation of pension and commutation. his monthly pension shall be fixed on the basis of last pay drawn on .. but no pension shall be paid for the period he served and for which he has received salary after ... the respondent are directed to process pension case of the petition er without further loss of time, if not rocessed earlier. in the above terms, the instant review petition no. stands disposed of. announced .. chief yes no)