page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at registry branch skardu. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. residents of chaqpo gomorra shigar through representatives. akhun hussain son of braqcho. mehdi son of habib. ali son of amir. amir son of shiekh ali. rasool son of haji hussain. kaseer son of karim. ghulam son of amir. issa son of shakoor. ibrahim son of ismail. muhammad son of issa residents of chaqpo ghommoro shigar district skardu. petitioners. reside nts of mouza saider tehsil shiga through representative. issa khan son of mehdi. issa khan son of ghulam. akber son of hussain residents of moza saider tehsil shigar district skardu. respondents. petition foe leave to the judgment decree dated .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby he dismissed the revision petition no. filed by petitioner defendant and upheld the judgment decree of learned additional district ... present: sr. advocate alongwith advocate on- record for the petitioners. advocate for respondents. date of hearing: --. date of detail judgment: ... page judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed against the impugned judgment decree dated .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby the civil revision no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed and the judgment order decree dated .. of the learned additional district the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted the leave to appeal and the case was fixed for hearing on ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that civil suit no. filed by the petitioner plaintiff in the learned trial court i.e. civil he further submits that civil suit no. fil ed by the respondent plaintiff being decreed by consolidated ... he further submits that in appeal the learned district and the judgment the learned trial court in suit no. were set aside and the matter was remanded back to the trial court. he further submits that the learned district he further submits that the only remedy available to the petitioner was to invoke the provisions of the arbitrations act he further submits that the suit no. was barred by law liable to fall page prey under order rule (d cpc. he further submits that after remanding the suit no. the learned trial court was pleased to grant relief was only to the extent of dry fire wood in favour of the petitioner respondent and the suit pasture was granted in favour of respondent defendants. he further submits that the revision was fi led before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court which was dismissed vide judgment ... he further submits that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court mixed up the question of law i.e. rejudicata and estoppel which was not sustainab le in law. he finally submits that the said impugned judgment order the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is the result of misconception of law and misreading non -reading of the facts of case, therefore, the same is not tenable and liable to set aside. on the other hand the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. he contends that the same has been passed in accordance with la and facts of the case, hence, the said is required to be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. no interference, therefore, is warranted into it to meet the ends of justice. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court and the judgments decrees page the courts below. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment order. in view of the above discussions, we converted this petition into an appeal and the same was dismissed vide our short order ... consequently, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court as well as the judgment decree dated .. in cfa no. and old no. the addit ional district .. in civil suit no. the learned civil judge, first class, shigar are maintained. these were the reasons for our short ... the appeal is dismissed in abo ve terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?