page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. saeed khan son of muhammad khan thingidas punial, district ghizer petitioner. maqsad khan others respondents. present: johar ali khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. -on-record for respondent no. maqsad khan respondent no. present in person. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the civil revision no. filed by respondent was dismissed with the slight modification by directing the respondent plaintiff to pay an extra amount of rs. as compensation to the respond ent no. hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent no. purchased a piece of land from the petitioner for rs. page alongwith numbers standing trees. this sale was pre -empted through civil suit no. and by the petitioner respondent no. before the court of learned civil ... the petitioner respondent no. being aggrieved filed civil first appeal no s. and before the learned district .. by settin aside the judgment of the learned trial court. the judgment of first appellate court was upheld by the learned chief court with the slight modification by directing the petitioner respondent plaintiff to pay an extra amount of rs. to the respon dent no. as compensation for the suffering and monetary loss caused by him. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the learned chief court has imposed an extra amount of rs. on the petitioner instead of imposing fine on the respondent who took adjournments on various dates while using delaying tactics. he also submits that the learned chief court dismissed the revision petition of the respondent no. by holding it meritless. the learned chief court, however, arbitrarily and illegally imposed the compensation on the petitioner which is not sustainable. he prays that the impugned judgment the learn ed chief court may graciously be set aside to the extent of imposing cost of rs. -. on the other hand, -on-record appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned judgment. he contends that the learned chie court has rightly page dismissed the civil revision of the petitioner by imposing the cost upon the petitioner payable to the respondent as compensation for the losses caused to him during the proceedings of the suit in question. he prays that the impugned ju dgment may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment. in our considered view, the impugned judgment the learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded and no interference is warranted into it by this court. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. pa ssed by the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.