page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla. no. chief engineer napwd gilgit and others. petitioner haji gohar folad and others. respondent present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. rehmat ali advocate -on-record on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: --. date of detail judgment: -....... judgment javed iqbal, j......... this petition has been directed against the impu gned judgment learned single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan vide judgment c. rev. no. dated --. whereby the learned single bench of chief court gilgit, has dismissed the petition under section () civil procedure code filed by the petitioner appellants. the brief facts as stated by the petitioner are that the respondent filed a reference petition u of land acquisition act in the court of land acquisition page dk -() dated march, collector ghizer wherein the respondent claimed enhancement of rates of lands, trees and structure. the land acquisition wherein signature of fwo concerned officials forged and fake stamp affixed and much time after filing of reference petition and after closing of evidence filed in the court the said forged list. the learned court recorded stat ements of parties and their witness in the connected reference petition titled shah zaman and others collector ghizer and others wherein the typist mistakenly typed statement of rates of trees as rs. instead of rs. for big fruit trees s. in place of rs. for medium fruit bearing trees rs. instead of rs. for small rs. instead of rs. for infant trees, like wise rs. instead of rs. for big non fruit trees rs. instead of for sma ll and rs. instead of for small trees the trial court after correcting the figures by inserting cross on the last zero of each figure leaving the rates -, -, and with a ball point and directed the staff to place the correct ed copies on each of the other connected case files, as the statement of dws recorded in the above case was relied in the other connected cases, but by way of fraud and collusion through dishonesty means the corrected copy was not placed in the file of the case page of respondent haji goahr and others whereas the corrected copies were place in the three others connected cases. vide impugned judgment the learned trial court fixed rs. rate for big trees and rs. for medium and small tress irrespec tive of fruit or non fruit bearing. at the time of recording of evidence of pws land acquisition therefore they were at the time of recording of statements of pws were not exhib ited. the said forged documents were placed on the file subsequently. the respondent filed appeal in the chief court against the judgment of trial court. the learned chief court called record of the trial court and on the basis of the said uncorrected copy of the statement of dw tehsildar muhammad sharif (p of this cpla) the learned chief court enhanced the rates as per incorrect typing by fixing rates of big trees, medium trees, small and annexed at serial no. -a of the index whereas record of the connected reference case titled shah zaman and others collector is annexed at serial no. -b of the index. page at the time of execution of the decree in the trial court the judgment debtor present appellant to ascertain the ac tual facts of the case constituted a departmental inquiry committee which after investigation found the above referred unfair practices and fraud on the part of decree holders, hence after having knowing the fraudulent practices of present decree holders, the judgment debtors present appellant filed application under section () c.p.c before the but contrary to facts and record the learned chief court passed the impugned judgment. henc this appeal. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan and senior advocate, contended, that, impugned judgment is in -correct, baseless contrary to law and facts, vague and misconceived, and ex -parte judgment. they also contended that the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan has passed the order judgment which is impugned, without considering and discussed the issues framed in the case property. the learned advocate general and senior advocate, further contended, that learned chief court did not bother to discussed the documentary as well as oral evidence produced by the appellant petitioner because the case in hand involved fraud, mis -representation and forgery. the learned counsel also contended, that, the appellant petitioner proved the case under section (), but learned chief court gilgit malafidely did not refer its findings, page and liable to be set aside. the learned advocate general contended, that, while passing impugned judgment order by single bench of learned chief court, failed exercise his jurisdiction, and with material irregularity not so vested in it. the learned single bench of chief court while passing impugned judgment, failed to appreciate he inquiry report. finally, the learned counsel of appellant petitioner prayed that, by accepting this civil leave to appeal, set aside the impugned --, single bench of learned chief court in civil misc. and grant the petition under section () civil procedure code against judgment of learned chief court, dated --, passed in civil appeal no. for ends of on the other hand the learned counsel for the respondent advocate contended, that, no fraud or mis -repres entation has been committed by the respondent as well as learned land acquisition judgment order, learned chief court gilgit is well reasoned. we have heard, the learned counsel of respective parties at grea length, perused the record of case file. as regard section () civil procedure code fraud or mis representation has been occurred either the parties, same is regulated under section () civil procedur code which provides as under: page section () c.p.c, () where a person challenges the validity of a judgment, decree or order on the plea of fraud, mis representation or want of jurisdiction, he shall seek his remedy by making an application to the court which passed the final judgment, decree or rder and not by a sep arate suit. a careful perusal of above quoted provision of section () of civil procedure code enhancement of compensation through fraud and mis -representation can be challenged through section () civil procedure code. the learn ed single bench of chief court gilgit, has erred that during execution proceedings, fake and forgery of record of trees by unconcerned patwari was discovered in learned chief court gilgit. the learned chief court did not consider above facts and points und er section () which were necessary. in view of above discussion, we agreed with the contentions raised by the learned senior counsel we deem it proper the petition converted into appeal and allowed. the impugned order judgment learned single bench of chief court dated -- is set aside and the case remanded back to learned acquisition to decide a fresh in its own merits as well as the impugned judgment decree dated -- in cc.ca learned member ii of chief court na set aside vide our short --. these were the reasons for the said short order. page this appeal is allowed in above terms. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?