page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil misc. no. in smc. no. (sap school teachers). present: the deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit baltistan on behalf of the ministry of federal education professional training, islamabad. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan. ali nazar khan advocate -on-record on behalf of the sap school teachers. baltistan. date of hearing: ... order. in pursuance of the .. of this court a report has been submitted by ministry of federal education professional training directorate general of basic education community schools, government of pakistan. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length and gone through the aforementioned report. the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit -baltistan submits that the teachers were paid honorarium not the salary in accord ance with the academic qualification of the sap schools teachers as per policy of government of pakistan. he also submits that the services of some of the employees sap school teachers were regularized on the basis of the criteria of their eligibility in ine page with the office memorandum no. -r-ii dated august, issued by the cabinet secretariate, establishment division islamabad. the learned deputy attorney general further submits that no case for taking suo moto notice was made out which onstrained this court to take cognizance. the aggrieved person, if any, may approach the concerned competent authorities for redressal of their grievances if so advised. the learned advocate general supports the above contentions of the learned deputy attorney general. he contends that since the matter was taken up by this apex court six years ago, ther efore, it may be considered as continuation of proceedings grievances and they may not be debarred on the question of limitation. the request is allowed. the representation or departmental appeals, if so filed by the effectees be entertained and decided in its own merits. in view of the above discussions, this suo moto case is disposed off in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?