page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla. no. safdar hussain others petitioners. provincial government others respondents. present: amjad hussain advocate and -on- record for the petitioners. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... date of announcement of judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition filed by the petitioner was dismissed by refusing admission for regular hearing. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impug ned order filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case was heard on .., consequently, the judgment was reserved. briefly, the facts of the case are that the petit ioners were employees of the respondent in a project under the department of health epi gavi (expanded program on immunization) in different page scales and designations purely on contract basis except the petitioner no. who was on deputati on from epi, heal th department. the epi (expanded program on immunization) was established by the federal government as a unit under the health department of gilgit -baltistan which was initially funded by gavi. the federal government has allocated fund for the program in question. the petitioner were serving in the said project from last four () years and the services of thirty five () colleagues of the petitioner were regularized by the respondents. on .. vide office order no. sec.h the respondent i llegally concluded the contract ual services of the petitioner by violating the terms and conditions of the pc of the project in question which is according to the petitioner is a discriminatory act. the petitioner claim that they have been deprived fr om their services illegally and unlawfully. per contentions of the petitioners, the government of gilgit -baltistan is was bound to allocate funds from its regular budget after two () years of the project. similarly, the pc has to be submitted to the fe deral government for conversion of the project from development to non -development regular budget including the conversion of the services of the petitioner as per scope of the pc -. the pc- has already been submitted by the government of gilgit -baltistan to the federal government for conversion of the staff as well as the said project. the project is likely to be regularized but the services of the petitioner have been discontinued by the respondent just to deprive them from their page services and to ac commodate the blue eyed persons which is malafidy on the part of the respondents. the petitioner feeling aggrieved were constrained to file writ petition no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was dismissed, hence, this le ave to appeal. the learned counsels for the petitioner contend that epi is a countrywide project which was started initially by the federal government as a unit under the health department of gilgit baltistan by the funds provided by gavi. they conte nd that such program was also initiated in the state of azad jammu kashmir which was later on regularized by floating pc from development to regular side. similarly, the services of the staff were also converted from contract ual into regular basis. the further contend that the government of gilgit -baltistan on one hand has moved the pc -iv to the federal government for conversion of the project into regular basis including the contract employees. on the other hand, the services of the petitioner have een discontinued vide impugned office .. issued by the respondents. per learned counsels, the said office order is illegal, unlawful and based on malafidy. they contend that earlier colleagues have been appointed on regular basis by converting their services from contract ual into regular whereas the petitioner have been discriminated. they contend that the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed writ petition in the learned chief court which was dismissed by refusi ng admission for regular hearing page whereas a an identical writ petition no. was accepted by directing the authorities of gilgit -baltistan to adjust all the petitioner in the their respective posts which was upheld by this apex court in cpla no. in case titled provincial government of gilgit -baltistan ehsan -ul-haq others. per learned counsels the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned order, hence, the same is not tenable and liable to be set aside. on the ther hand, the learned advocate general supports the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. he contends that the petitioner were the contract employees of the project and their services have rightl been terminated by the respondent as the period of the project expired on ... per learned advocate general, after winding up of the project the staffs have automatically been terminated from their services. he contends that the writ petition filed by the petitioner was not maintainable which has rightly been dismissed by the learned chief court. he further contends that the said impugned order is well reasoned and no interference is warranted into it. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned order. admittedly, the petitioner were contractual employees in a project whose services have been terminated by the respondent after the completion of the said project. it is also not page disputed that the services of the petitioner were temporary, therefore, they can not claim as a right for the conversion of their temporary posts into regular service. the learned counsels for the petiti oners could not point out any infirmity in the said impugned order. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.