page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. appeal no. in cpla.no. mst. zainaba others petitioners. sher sulieman other respondents. present:- ali nazar khan advocate- on-record for the petitioner. nemo for respondents. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed against the impugned judgment .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court whereby the revision petition filed by the petitioner was dismissed by maintaining the impugned judgment decree the learned additional district .. in cfa no. the petitioner eing aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment order filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave ordered for issu notices to the respondents. the case was heard on ... and this appeal was dismissed vide our short ... page briefly the facts of the case are that the respondent no. namely sher sulieman filed a civil suit no. in the court of the learned civil he claimed that the disputed land given to him by his father dodu as his share in consequence of the partition of his legacy in his life time, however, it was retained by his father as amanat. after the death of his father, the respondent petitioner no. who was then residing with his father was not ready to deliver the possession of the land to him as it was gifted to her by her father dodu. the petitioner and the respondent are sister and brother inter se. while defending the su it the petitioner respondent in their written statement have contended that the land in question has been gifted to petitioner no. by her father dodu through gift deed dated .. as such the claim of the petitioner was not sustainable in the eye of law. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the learned courts below while adjudicating the case had fell in error in understanding the point which was actually controversial between the parties. the suit was disposed off directing to divide the disputed land among the legal heirs of dodu in accordance with their sharia share, which was not in accordance with law. he also submits that the disputed land was entirely owned by the father of the parties who had gifted it to respondent no. through gift deed dated ... he further submits that the suit land was in possession of the respondent no. in consequent of the said page gift but the learned courts below did not consider th is fact and wrongly decreed the suit in question in favour of the respondent. he finally argued that the learned chief court fell in error while deciding the civil revision no. and passing the impugned .. filed by the petitioner which according to them is not sustainable and liable to be set aside being the result of misconception of law and facts. we have perused the judgment of the learned trail court who decreed the suit as under:- (i) plaintiff is entitled to get kanal marlas sarsahi from the suit land out of kanal marla sarsahi after deduction of kanal which is already in his possession. (ii) defendant no. and mst. sahar gul are in possession of their shares measuring kanal each which have been given to them by their father dadoo as admitted ty the plaintiff in para no. of his plaint which will be remained in possession of defendant no. and mst. sahar gul as their shares. (iii) defendant no. is entitled to get kanal marl as and sar shai from the suit land which is legacy of her father. (iv) gift deed dated and mutation no. dated are hereby cancelled. (v) plaintiff, defendant no. and mst. sahar gul are entitled to get their sharia shares fom the house and three cattle sheds. in appeal the learned appellate court was pleased to uphold the judgment decree dated .. the learned trail court. the civil revision no. filed by the page petitioner, upon hearing the learned chief court was pleased to hold that it is evident from the record that during the life time of dadu he has given some land to the daughters and son but one could not definitely say that the said distribution was in accordance with sharia. thus, .e. the disputed land and the land now under the possession of the off-springs of dodu should be divided among the l.rs. of dodu in accordance with sharah they follow. in this regard late dodu has also not imposed an ban showing the land given by him to his daughters and son in his life time should not be disturbed. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in concurrent findings of three courts below. in view of the above discussions we dismissed the above appeal vide our short ... consequent the reto the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court as well as the judgment in cfa. no. dated .. the first appellate court and judgment in civil suit no. dated .. the learned civil gilgit were maintained. these were the reasons for our short ... the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?