page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan at skardu registry. chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla. no. ali hassan others petitioners. akhon ismail other s. respondents. present:- date of hearing:- ... date of detail judgment:- .. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil second appeal no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court whereby the said civil second appeal of the respondent was dismissed by maintaining the judgments orders of the learned courts below, hence, this leave to appeal. briefly the facts of the case are that the respondent plaintiff filed a suit for declaration, consequential relief and permanent injunction regarding the chulichen cha nnel situated in zhoq kachura nallah. as per the pleading of the case the said channel was constructed executed by the forefather of the respondent plaintiff to irrigate their lands bearing khasra no. page the petitioner defendant want to dig out a sub channel from the said channel as according to the respondent the petitioner have no right to dig out another channel. subsequently the respondent filed the said suit for permanent injunction to restrain the petitioner in interfering into their water rights etc. the petitioner denied the claims of the respondent and contested the suit by producing evidence on record. the learned trial court after hearing both the parties and examining the evidence on record, decreed the suit in favour of the respondent vide judgment decree dated ... the petitioner feeling aggrieved filed civil first appeal no. before the learned district .. and the same was upheld by the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court vide impugned .., hence, this petitio for leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal. consequently, notices were issued to the respondent and the case was heard on ... we after hearing the respective parties dismissed the appeal by maintaining the concurrent findings of the learned three courts below vide our short ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that although there are three concurrent findings of the learned courts below in favour of the respondents, however, all the three courts below failed to apply their judicial minds while passing the impugned judgments orders. he also submits that the petitioner page have nothing to do with the channel of chulichen nallah. in fact the petitioner want to dig out a channel from biyamachan nallah in order to irrigate their fields and trees. according to the learned counsel for the petitioner no channel exists at chulichen nallah since long time and the land of the respondent under khasra no. measuring kanal marla is also a barren land. whereas the petitioner want to irrigate their lands measuring kanal and marla by digging out a channel from biyamachan nallah not from chulichen nallah. he further submits that the learned gilgit- baltistan chief court as well as the learned first appellate court and the learned trial court have misconceived the provisions of limitation act and the specific relief act, therefore, the impugned .. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court as well as the judgments of the learned courts below are not tenable and liable to be set aside. on the other hand the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned .. in civil second appeal no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court. he contends that the same has been passed in accordance with law and facts of the case, hence, the said impugned order may graciously be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil second page appeal no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court as well as the concurrent findings of the courts below. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court has rightly held that the question involved in the matter framed by the learned trial court are purely question of facts which were resolved after appreciating the evidence material on record by the learned trial court. furthermore, the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned order the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court. in view of the above discussions, we dismissed this appeal vide our short ... consequently, the impugned .. in civil second appeal no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court as well as the .. in cfa. no. the learned district .. in civil suit no. the learned civil these were the reasons for our sai short order. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?