page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. abdul qayyum son of sher muhammad babusar chilas petitioner. dilawar hussain son of noor alam babusar respondent. present: date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil petition has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the revision petition no. filed by the respondent was accepted, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent filed a civil suit for recovery of rs. against the present petitione defendant. he also filed a application under order rule cpc with a prayer that amount of compensation against khasra no. bunar dass to the extent of kanals marlas, is assessed in favour of the petitioner defendant which may page be attached be fore the judgment as the defendant has to pay the suit amount to plaintiff respondent. in case of payment of the same is made to the petitioner defendant, it is apprehended that he may abandon the locality to frustrate the decree of respondent plaintiff. the petitioner defendant denied the contents of plaint on legal and factual grounds contending that the petitioner defendant will not abandon the locality and other properties of the petitioner defendant do exist in the locality. the learned co unsel for the petitioner submits that the suit filed by the respondent was not maintainable due to mix up of declaration and recovery of the amount from the petitioner. he also submits that the impugned order the learned chief court is contrary the law and facts of the case, hence, the same is not sustainable whereas the order the learned district court is sustainable being passed in accordance with law. he prays that the impugned order may graciously be set aside. on the other ha nd, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned order with the contention that the learned chief court has rightly accepted the revision petition of the respondent as the learned district the order the learned district -non-judice. he prays to maintain the impugned order the learned chief court in circumstances. page we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment. admittedly, the learned district court has no pecuniary jurisdiction to entertain the suit bearing amount of rs. -. the impugned judgment the learned chief court is well reasoned as no infirmity or illegality is pointed out by the learned counsel for the petitioner. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal a nd the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.