page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpal no. ali gohar others petitioners. yousuf ali respondent. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed against the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil revision filed by the respondent was allowed by setting aside the .. in civil first appeal no. the learned district -nagar and judgment decree dated .. in civil suit no. the learned civil the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent filed civil suit no. for declaration etc in the court of learned page civil is incorrect, baseless and without any right authority. upon hearing the suit in question was dis missed vide judgment decree dated .. which was subsequently upheld by the learned first appellate court vide ... on revision, the learned chief court was pleased to reverse the concurrent findings of the learned two courts below, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the ancestry is admitted but the dispute was only remaining half portion of the suit proper ty of mst. zainaba daughter of kasir. mst. zainaba is the real owner of the disputed property. he also submits that the respondent is the son of meharban and grandson of mst. zainaba. after demise of meharban, mst. zainaba had to look after her grandson i. e. yousuf ali (respondent). per learned counsel, mst. zainaba got married with ali gohar (petitioner no. ). he further submits that no illegality was committed by the petitioner and his act was according to sharia in contracting marriage with mst. zainab a. he adds that mst. zainaba has brought up the respondent when he was about years of age being wedl ock with ali gohar (petitioner) and the petitioner no. rendered full time services to the respondent and his grandmother till her death. per learned counsel, mst. zainaba gave him half share of her legacy in lieu of his services vide gift deed registry no. ). he submits that page the learned chief court did not consider the afor ementioned facts while passing the impugned .. and has wrongly reversed the concurrent findings of the learned two courts below. he contends that the impugned order is the result of misreading and mis -appreciation of evidence and material on record. he prays that the impugned order the learned chief court may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned order the learned chief court. he contends that there is no gift deed executed by mst. zainaba in favour of the petitioners. he also contends that the possession is also disputed between the parties and both the parties claim that the property in question is in their possession. since, the possession of the suit land i.e. about kanals in dispute. consequently, he learned trial court appointed receivers namely fida ali, rajab ali and shaban ali pisan nagar to receive income of the property in question and the said income be deposited in court accordingly. he further contends that the possession of the disp uted land has been proved from the statement of shaban ali and nawroz who stated that the possession of the said land is with the respondent. he reiterates that the petitioner ailed to prove the issue no. and as such the learned chief court has right ly reversed the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. he pray that the impugned page .. may pleased be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned order pa ssed by the learned chief court, the .. in civil first appeal no. the learned district -nagar and judgment decree dated .. in ivil suit no. the learned civil in our considered view, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court is the result of mis appreciation of the evidence and other material on record which is not sustainable whereas the concurrent findings of the learned courts below are well reasoned and well founded. the petitioner have successfully proved issue no. by producing documentary as well as oral evidence which have rightly been appreciated by the learned two courts below. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the le arned chief court is set aside. the concurrent findings of the learned two courts below are maintained. page the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.