page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. -ud-din, judge. judge. civil appeal. no. in cpla. no. muhammad ali yougvi petitioner. deputy commissioner skardu another respondents. present: the advocate general, gilgit -baltistan alongwith secretary gad, gilgit -baltista and deputy commissioner skardu for the respondents. date of hearing: ... dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this appeal has been arisen out of the impugned judgment in writ petition no. dated .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. whereby, the writ petition of the petitioner was dismissed holding that the same is based on malafide on the part of petitioner and was not competent also. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment filed petition before this court with the prayer that the impugned judgment may please be set aside. the learned counsel for the petitioner contends that the petitioner is a government officer who is entitled to occupy a government residence at any station subject to availability of an alternate government residence at his place of posting. he further contends that the said official accommodation has been allotted to page the petitioner in pursuance of an office order no. so (g) () dated .. by the competent authority i.e. the hief secretary gilgit -baltistan. subsequently, the same allotment was cancelled by the respondent no. and the same as allotted to respondent no. illegally and unlawfully vide impugned cancellation order no. estt -() dated ... he further contends that he accommodation allocation rules, also permits the government officers to retain a government residence in his own name or in the name of his spouse or dependent children, at the stati on of his posting. he is also allowed to retain the government house to six months grace period from the date of completion of his house. he finally contends that the impugned cancellation order issued by the respondent no. and the impugned judgment the learned chief court gilgit baltistan is the result of misconception of law and rules, misreading and non reading of the material on the record hence the same is not tenable. on the other hand, the learned advocate general gilgit baltista submits that as per sub section of housing the accommodation rules a government servant who own a house in his own name of his spouse or dependent children is not allowed government a ccommodation. furthermore, as per para (b) of office order issued by then chief secretary northern areas, government officer who ave their own residential house at the place of posting shall no be eligible for allotment of overnment page residence. he further submits that () kanals lands having constructed triple storey house at marafi colony olding skardu which is rented -out to intelligence bureau rs. (thirty thousand only) per month. we have heard the learned counsel for the peti tioner as well as the learned advocate general at length, perused the record of case file and the accommodation allocation rules, and gone through the impugned judgment in writ petition no. dated .. the learned chief court gilgit baltistan. in our considered view, the said impugned judgment is well reasoned and well founded. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment. in view of the above, this petition is converted into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned judgment in writ petition no. dated .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan is maintained. the petitioner is directed to vacate the gov ernment residence provided to him i.e. government quarter no. or d-, in his possession situated at skardu within one () month and handover the vacant possession to the deputy commissioner, skardu. the appeal is dismissed. chief judge. judge. judge. page judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not? page