page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil misc no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. nadir shah son of durdana shah gahkuch respondent. present: the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general gilgit -baltistan and -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing short order: ... date of detailed judgment:- ... judgment dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this civil petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in service appeal no. the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal whereby appeal of the respondent was accepted by setting aside the dismissal order of the respondent dated .. accordingly the respondent was re -instated in his service with all back benefits. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the espondent and the case was heard on ... briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent joined pakistan army on .. as soldier and retired on page .. after serving years. as per record maintained be pakistan army his date of birth was 2nd march, he is getting pension from pakistan army. on .. the respondent succeeded in obtaining a government service as chowkidar bps in the office of the then deputy commissioner ghizer by concealing his service in pakistan army. after his appointment in as chowkidar as per service rules, he was referred to government hospital for his medical checkup etc. the doctor while examining him has mentioned his age as years. at the time of his induction in government service he was years of age whereas he shown himself of years of age. on the basis of this illegal and forged documents, the respondent completed years services in the office of the then deputy commissioner ghizer. later on, upon knowing about his conceal ment of service in pakistan army his age he was terminated from service vide ... the respondent being aggrieved filed service appeal no. which upon hearing was allowed on technical grounds vide impugned .. hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that since the appointment order was obtained by the respondent through fraud, misrepresentation and concealment of fact, hence, the same was void, illegal and unlawful which was rightly been set aside by the then deputy commissioner ghizer upon knowing the facts, so concealed by the respondent. he also submits that the respondent page joined pakistan army on .. as soldier and retired on .. after serving sixteen () years. as per record maintained by pakistan army his date of birth was 2nd march, per learned advocate general he is also getting pension from pakistan army. later on the respondent ot a medical certificate in his favour with connivance of the doctors and go declared his age as years at the time of his appointment as chowkidar bps-. in fact, he was year old at the time of his entry into civil service. he further submits that on the basi of these illegal and forged documents, the respondent completed years services in the office of the de puty commissioner ghizer. when the fact of his concealment service in pakistan army and his age came on surface, he was terminated from service vide ... the respondent being aggrieved filed service appeal no. which upon hearing was allowed on technical grounds vide impugned ... he finally submits that the petitioner at the time of his termination was years old. the learned service tribunal fell in error while passing the said impugned judgment, therefore the same is not sustainable and liable to set aside. conversely, -baltistan service tribunal. he contends that the termination order of the respondent is illegal void ab -anitio and has been issued without lawful authority. the page appointing authorit as well as medical officer were bound to determine the age of the respondent when he appeared before the then deputy commissioner district ghizer for an interview. after the appointment of the respondent he appeared before the medical officer civil hosp ital gahkuch for medical fitness certificate. the age of the respondent was determined and he declared as years old the same was entered in his service book. the respondent did not conceal any fact with regard to his age and service book etc rather it was determine by the board of doctors. he further contends that no complained in respect of performing his duties as chowkidar as such no adverse entries have be en made in his service book till his termination from service. he also contends that the termination .. the then deputy commissioner district ghizer was illegal as no show cause notice was issued to the respondent. no charge heet and statement of allegations prepared and no departmental inquiry was ever held against the respondent prior to his termination order. per learned counsel the respondent rendered years months days as chowkidar in the office of the then depu ty commissioner district ghizer. he finally prays that the impugned .. the learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded, hence, no interference into it is warranted. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the page learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. admittedly, the respondent has concealed his army service and his age as ent ered in his service book maintained by pak -army. he subsequently succeeded in obtaining civil service, hence, the appointment order was obtained through fraud, misrepresentation and concealment of fact which was rightly been set aside by the petitione no. the then deputy commissioner district ghizer. we agree with the contentions raised by the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan. in our consider view the impugned judgment is not well reasoned and well-founded, hence, the same is not tenable in la w. in view of the above discussions, we converted this petition into an appeal and the same was allowed vide our short ... consequently, the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal was set aside. these were the reasons of our said short order. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.