page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan at skardu registry. chief judge. judge. civil appeal. no in cpla. no. abbas others petitioners. raza another respondents. present:- wazir walayat ali advocate on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing:- ... date of detail judgment:- .. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court whereby the civil revision of the respondent was accepted by setting aside the judgments of the learned courts below, hence, this leave to appeal. briefly facts of the case are that the respondent are the owners of the suit property. the said suit property was gifted by their late father vide mutation no. dated .. under khasra no. measuring kanals marlas and land measuring kanal marlas out of kanal marlas under khasra no. was given to the respondent no. namely ahmed page for cultivation as tenant for equal share and also lagan have been received. in the year said respondent no. has refused to pay the lagan with the plea that he is the owner of the said land. the respondent further declared that on inspection of the revenue record they came to know that said suit property was mutated in the names of the fathers of the petitioner n0. namely abbas and petitioner no. namely mst. sakina pari sons daughters of abdullah vide mutation no. and later on mutation no. was also entered in the names of respondent nos. namely ahmed and mehmood sons of muhammad ali as permanent tenant respectively. the respondent remained in possession of suit property since the life time of their father. according to the averment that the mutation no. and was attested on the basis of concocted sale deed with the collusion of revenue staff. the respondent no. to contested the suit on various legal factual grounds. on the factual side their contention was that the father of petitioner has sold out the suit land against consideration of rs. and rs. in the year to their fathers and got the mutations attested in their names and possession thereof was also delivered. the land under khasra no. measuring kanal is in their constructive possession and enjoying the ownership benefits wherefrom and the dispute with respect to the said land is pending with the tenant before the revenue court against the tenants respondent the respondent no. filed their written statement and asserted page that they have been cultivating the suit land under their possession as tenants of the respondent no. to and are ready to pay the lagan to petitioners. whereafter the petitioner approached the revenue authorities to cancel the mutation no. but they refused. the petitioner being aggrieved filed civil suit no. before the learned trial court. upon hearing the respective parties and after examining the evidence available on record, the learned trial court dismissed the suit of the petitioner vide ... the petitioner being aggrieved filed cfa no. which upon hearing was also dismissed being meritless vide .. by maintaining the judgment of the learned trial court. the petitioner being aggrieved filed civil revision no. before the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court. upon hearing the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court was pleased to allow the said civil revision by setting aside the .. in cfa no. the learned additional district .. the learned trial vide impugned .., hence, this leave to appeal. the notices to the respondent were issued on .. th case was heard on ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the respondent plaintiff no. filed a civil suit no. before the learned civil khasra no. page measuring kanals marlas, the land khasra no. measuring kanals marlas, khasra no. measuring kanals, khasra no. measuring kanals marlas and khasra no. measuring kanals marlas, situated at mouza harpoh roundo. he also submits that the learned civil .. dismissed the suit of the respondent declaring the same meritless. he further submits that being aggrieved the respondent filed a civil first appeal no. before the learned first appellate court skardu which upon hearing was dismissed vide its ... the respondent challenged the said judgment of the learned district before the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court which upon hearing was allowed by setting aside both the judgments of the courts below vide impugned ... he finally submits that the judgments the learned courts below may graciously be maintained being well reasoned. as per learned counsel for the petitioner the impugned judgment the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court is the result of misreading and non-appreciation of evidence on record, therefore, the same is not sustainable and liable to be set aside. on the other hand the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court. he contends that the same has been page passed in accordance with law and facts of the case, hence, interference is warranted into. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court as well as the concurrent findings of the courts below. we are in agreement with the contentions raised by the learned counsel of the petitioner that concurrent finding of the learned trail court learned first appellate court are well reasoned which in our considered view the same be maintained. in view of the above discussions, we convert ed this petition into an appeal vide short .. and the same was allowed. consequently, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court was set aside whereas .. in civil suit no. the learned trial court skardu as well as .. in civil first appeal no. the learned first appellate court additional district these were the reasons for our short ... the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. page judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?