page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. civil review. no. in cpla. no. chairman parc g- p.o box no. islamabad. director general mountain agriculture research centre (marc) juglote, gilgit. petitioners. khalid ikhlaq son of muhammad nazeem. abdul raheem son of rajool damote sai paeen gilgit. ameen ullah son of bahadur khan shikyote tehsil district gilgit. respondents. present: rehmat ali advocate -on-record for the petitioner. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil review petition no. in cpla no. has been directed against the impugned .. this court, wherein the leave to appeal filed by the petitioner against the impugne .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court was dismissed being barred by time. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the leave to the impugned page .. was iled after a delay of twenty on days whereas the delay of thirty days has been mentioned in the impugned .. this apex court. he further submits that after receipt of the certified copy of the impugned judgment pas sed by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court was referred to assistant director legal for preparation of appeal who mistakenly considered three months for filing appeal. he also submits that the delay was also cause due to blockade of karakoram highway (kkh) with effect from .. to .. due to which the petitioner could not receive the file from head office situated at islamabad. he also submits that this .., hence, the same is not sustainable. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. this court. the learned counsel for the petitioner himself conceded that the petition was barred by time for a period of twenty one () days and he could not explain plausible justification in this regard. in view of the above and in pursuance of the law laid down by the apex court of pakistan in case laws reported as scmr scmr scmr and scmr even one day unexplained delay was not condoned. consequently, the civil review petition is dismissed. page the civil review petition is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?