page in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan civil appeal. no. mr..rana mohammad shamim, chief judge. mr., judge. judge. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan secretary services gilgit baltistan secretary health gilgit baltistan petitioner appellant dr. johar ali mohammad taqi gilgit respondent leave to appeal under aticle of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order read with enabling articles of gilgit baltistan supreme appellate court rules against the impugned -- the learned service tribunal gilgit -baltistan in appeal no. whereby the appeal filed by respondent has been accepted and petitioner are directed to prepare working papers for promotion of respondent as chief consultant bps -. present: the advocate general gilgit baltistan along with johar ali advocate on record date of hearing and judgement: judgment sha hbaz khan, j: this judgment shall dispose of the titled c.appeal.no. as a result of converting cpla.no. into appeal by this court vide filed against the judgment of the learned gilgit -baltistan services tribunal passed in appeal no. vide which the appeal of the respondent was allowed and it was directed as follows.: in view of what has been discussed above appeal accepted. respondent are directed to prepare working papers for promotion of appellant as chief consultant bs and the same be placed before departmental promotion committee for consideration with effect from due date with pensioner benefits of the higher page grade after retirement and complete the process within three months with compliance report to the registrar of this tribunal. no order as to cost learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan seeks reversal of the impugned judgment on two grounds, first ly that the case of respondent was not te nable under subsection of section gilgit baltistan civil servant act wherein a civil servant has been barred from getting promotion after retirement. secondly, the health department was not competent to process the case for promotion to bps hence the submission of working paper for placing before the dpc by the services department is without authority. learned counsel for respondent defended the impugned judgment by submitting that the respondent was entitled to get his romotion with effec from on the basis of fitness com seniority. the respondent was the senior most in the specialist cadre and qualified for promotion against the vacant post of bs of chief consultant. it was not his fault in respect of any kind of delay in processi ng of his promotion case or convening the meeting of departmental promotion committee rather th delay in holding the dpc was fault of concern departments or malafide act of the concern ed officials by not deciding the objections of a very influential junior colleague of respondent namely dr. shahbuddin who had challenged the seniority list in the health epartment being a competent authority willfully delayed the case of the respondent avoiding decision on merit and waited until with drawl of objection application of the objector dr. shahab ud din on and the the working papers for promotion of the respondent were submitted on to the services department for placing the same before dpc at the verge of his retirement. the dpc meeting was held on after attaining th age of superannuation of the respondent and his promotion case was not considered on the sole ground that the respondent has alr eady been retired on the counsel of espondent stated that the respondent exhausted all the forums against the erroneous findings of the departmental promotion committee before filing his appeal to gb services tribunal by submitting review petition before the chief secretary an appeal to chief minister as well. he further argued that the rejection of case page of the respondent by the dpc on on the sole point of retirement of the respondent earlier is misconceived and against the sub section of th section of gb civil servants act which allows a civil servant to get his pro forma promotion even after his retirement. the record on case file reveals that the espondent was appointed as medical officer in bps in gb health department on through fpsc and was promoted as senior medical officer in bps in the year after getting post graduation qualification in paeds medicines in the re spondent served as child specialist against a temporary post at dhq hospital chilas and assumed his charge as child specialist against the regular post on 05th april along with other promotion cases of the specialist cadre, the case of the responde nt was also submitted before the dpc meeting of which was held on on acquiring post graduate qualification as specialist in paeds medicine in and on request to adjust as child specialist he was then transferred from senior medical office bps to child specialist bps by the competent authority against a temporary post at dhq chilas on 5th april on july 1st the post of hild specialist became regular and the director health department sent the working paper for holding meeting of dpc for promotion as child specialist of the respondent instead of making a simple case of transfer of service from smo bps to child specialist. the dpc was held on but respondent was not considered due to faulty presentation of wo rking paper by the department and case was deferred for submitting the same after correction. the second dpc was held on but surprisingly no findings appeared in the minutes of mee ting despite the fact that the working papers of the respondent were included in the agenda of the meeting of dpc but surprisingly the case of the respondent was neither accepted for promotion nor rejected and the minut es of meeting in this regard became silent, as a result the cases of three junior officers were considered and promoted in the specialist cadre in and naturally they became senior to respondent due to negligence, willful act of the concerns present in page the dpc meeting, however he respondent was promoted as child specialist later on in the meanwhile, the posts of specialist cadre in gb upgraded to bs under newly service structure and all the specialist doctors including the respondent promoted to bs resultantly three junior colleagues got promoted in bs much more before the respondent. being the most senior in specialist cadre as per seniority list issued by the health department on the respondent once again applied for promotion for bs on in the meanwhile ne junior colleague name dr. shahab ud din challenged the said seni ority list on the competent authority instead of taking decision of the seniority dispute on the basis of merit and record promptly delayed the matter and later on referred the matter to a committee comprising director health service, office bearers of akistan medical association gb, which decided in favor of the respondent and the working paper for promotion of the respondent was processed in health directorate and thereafter were ent to ecretariat for onward submission of the same before the dpc but the case was not proceeded further by the health secretariat due to refusal of said junior colleague dr. shahab ud din once again to give noc in writing. however, he said objector voluntarily withdrew from his seniority case against the respondent and submitted a no objection ertificate before the health secretariat on as a result, the working papers of promotion of the respondent were sent to services general administration on for placing the same before the dpc, the meeting of which was held on and in the meanwhile the respondent attained the age of superannuation and got retired on the dpc meeting eclined to cons ider the case of the respondent on the sole point of his retirement before holding of the dpc meeting. coming to facts of the case as explained in para above, it has not been disputed before this court: i. that three colleague octors junior to the espondent becam senior as a result of consideration of their page ii. promotion cases by the dpc eeting held on but failure of giving any finding in respect of the case of the respondent available on the agenda of the same dpc meeting either accepting or rejecting the same caused effect adversely on the seniority as well as promotion of the respondent. iii. that the respondent was entitled to be promoted in bs against the vacant post of newly created chief consultant as well with effect from being a senior most and duly qualified specialist. iv. that the representation of the respondent for promotion in bs was already under consideration since v. that delay in decision of seniority dispute was not because of the respondent but it was a fault and lapses of the authorities of health department showing their negligen ce and inefficiency. vi. that the on submission of promotion case before the ga department by the health department and extra ordinary delay in holding dpc meeting since issuance of seniority list dated was not a fault or mistake of the respondent rather it was due to the reasons best known to the departments concer ned. vi. that the working papers for the promotion of the respondent in bs were submitted to services ga department by the health department for holding dpc meeting on much before the attaining age of superannuation of the espondent dated vii. that delay ed holding of dpc meeting on page was not due to any act or fault of the respondent rather the same was due to departments concerned. viii. that the case file does not show any kind of adverse remarks or complaint against the respondent which reveals that his performance as a doctor has remained excellent and unblemished. keeping in view of the conclusion on facts drawn in para above and coming to the main contention raised by the learned advocate general referring sub section of section gb civil servants act that a retired civil servant is not eligible for grant of promotion or pro forma promotion thus the respondent as well lacks eligibility in the instant case as of retired civil servant. but interestingly the learned advocate general forgot to quote the sub section of section of the same act which entitles a civil servant to get antedated pro forma promotion and also the learned advocate gene ral failed to refer the clause of sub ection of section of gb civil servants act which recognizes the pro forma promotion of the retired civil servants in case of accruing their right of promotion before attaining the age of superannuation which reads as under: definitions (a)----, (b) ----, (c)----- (d)----, (e)-----, (f)------, (g) ------- (h) pro forma promotion means predating of promotion of civil servant or retired civil servant with effect from the date of regular promotion of his junior, for the purpose of fixation of pay and payment of arrears as may be prescribed moreover the learned advocate general had no explanation about the sub section of section of the gb civil servant act as well which recognizes the entitlement of pro forma promotion of a civil servant from an earlier date which reads as under: promotion () ------ () ------- () ------- () a civil servant shall not be entitled to promotion for an earlier date except in the case of pro forma promotion. page as per federal government olicy duly approved by the prime minister of pakistan, the guide lines for fr -() in respect of committees to consider the cases of pro forma promotion has been amended vide office memorandum f. no.() imp fr dated 18th september, wherein para -i has declared the civil servant to be promoted fro a particular date who for no fault of his own has been wrongfully prevented from rendering service to the federation in the higher post and such civil servant has been entitled to get the arrears of pays and allowances of such higher post through pro forma promotion or up gradation arising from the ante -dated fixation of his seniority. moreover a new clause (a) () has been inserted in ara-iv of the said m.o whereby the departmental promotion committees have been declared to be under obligation to consider the cases of civil servants for pro forma promotion to next higher post in their own cadre of the cases of retired civil servants who could not be considered for promotion for no fa ult of their own and retired on attaining the age of superannuation. the relevant provisions of the o.m of finance division dated are as under: page part -ii --------- part -iii ------- page .learned counsel for respondent cited several cases on this point however he mainly relied upon the judgment of supreme court of pakistan full bench headed by honorable we find that it has not been disputed before this court that much the retirement of the respondents, a working paper was prepared by the department with regard to their promotion but the matter was delayed without any justifiable reason and in the meanwhile respondent attained the age of superannuation. they cannot be made to suffer on account of the departmental lapse. the arguments of learned law officer that the respondent we re not entitled at the relevant time to be granted promotion for on reason or the other is rather misconceived as the operative part of the impugned judgment has candidly directed that the working paper of the respondent shall be prepared and they will considered for grant of next grade notwithstanding their retirement, if they are even otherwise found entitled thereto. this fact now would be pro forma promotion .the learned advocate general is of the opinion that the findings of the honorable supreme court of pakistan of the above referred citation does not apply in the instant case as the same has been based on the provisions of punjab civil servants (amendment) act act which has nothing to do with services matters of gilgit -baltist an. for the making fair comparison to the same provision of gb civil servant act the section of the punjab civil servant (amendment) act is being reproduced here as under promotion: () a civil servant shall be eligible to be considered for appointment by promotion to a post reserved for promotion in the service or cadre to which he belongs in a manner as may be prescribed; provided that he possesses the prescribed qualifications. () promotion including pro forma promotion shall not be claimed by any civil servant as of right. () promotion shall be granted with immediate effect and be actualized from the date of assumption of charge of the higher post, and shall in no case be granted from the date of availability of post reserved for promotion. page () a civil servant shall not be entitled to promotion from an earlier date except in the case of pro forma promotion. () a retired civil servant shall not be eligible for grant of promotion or pro forma promotion. () a post referred to in sub -section () may either be a selection post or a non-selection post to which promotion shall be made as follows: (a) in the case of a selection post, on the basis of selection on merit; and (b) in the case of non -selection post, on the basis of seniority -cum fitness the perusal of the above provisions shows that the contents of the section heading promotion and other provisions of gb civil servants act and the punjab civil servants (amendment) act are exactly the same having no difference of even a coma or full stop and it appears that the legislature of gilgit -baltistan has actually reproduced the same law of punjab civil servant (amendment) act in gilgit-baltistan as well without mentioning that the same is bei ng adapted or enforced. thus any interp retation in respect of pro forma promotion held by the honorable high ourts or supreme court of pakistan in the light of the above referred provisions concerning subject matter of pro forma promotion after retirement shall be applicable to the same nature ca ses in ilgit baltistan as well. he contention raised by the learned advocate general regarding non application of interpretation of superior courts in pakistan in respect of the same provisions of law is devoid of any substance at all thus over ruled. .that the concept or right of promotion of a civil servant after retirement is not limited to pakistan rather the same exist all over the world. the laws in pakistan consid er such kinds of promotions as of pro forma promotion and in india the same is known as notional promotion. the high courts and supreme court in india have thoroughly discussed the issue in their numerous judgments some of which are as under:. kerala high court vide its in case wp (). no. of (f), has held that: page going by the facts of the case, petitioner cannot be denied the benefit of notional promotion sought for. it is admitted that the meeting of the d.p.c was delayed due to administrative reasons. going by the rules they should have met sufficiently earlier a nd if so, the select list would have been published before the end of the previous year. herein, the list was published only on therefore, the contention that the petitioner cannot claim notional promotion after retirement on the ground that here existed a vacancy prior to his retirement cannot be accepted. as regards the vacancy position also, in the vacancy which arose in consequent on the retirement of shri.t.rajan, smt.ambika kumari who was sl.no. in ext.p1 was promoted as seni or administrative assistant per even though it is submitted in the counter affidavit that the petitioner cannot claim promotion as a matter of right, it is evident from the facts stated that the other persons have been chosen for pr omotion. in that view of the matter, it is not a case where the petitioner could be denied it on the ground that he has no vested right. but as a matter of fact, the government has been conveniently conferring the benefit to other persons in whose case als the promotion was delayed. the writ petition is allowed. exts.p4 and p8 are quashed. appropriate orders granting notional promotion to the petitioner as senior administrative assistant with effect from will be issued and the consequential benefits by revision of pension and other retirement benefits will be disbursed without any further delay. appropriate orders shall be passed within two months from the date of receip of the copy of this judgment. the learned db of high court of punjab haryana in the case of chaman lal lakhanpal union public service commission and ors., decided on .. and reported in () slr giving relief to the petitioner, the held as under: it is the admitted position that the petitioner was eligible to be considered for promotion in the year -. it is also not disputed that his claim has not been considered. thus, the petitioner, even if he was approaching the date of retirement when the matter was pending before the tribunal, had a right to be considered with effect from the due date and on being found suitable, he could be fictionally granted the relief which had been denied to him for no fault of his. the relief could not be denied to him merely because a statutory authority viz. the ommittee as constituted under the indian administrative service (appointment by promotion) regulations, had not met. the respondent cannot be permitted to take advantage of their own wrong. by sleeping over the matter, they cannot defeat the rights a citizen available to him under the constitution as well as the statutory provisions of the regulations supreme court of india in p.n. premchandran state of kerala and others () scc is relevant. the relevant part of the said judgment reads as under: it is not in dispute that the posts were to be filled up by promotion. we fail to understand how the appellant, keeping in view the facts and circumstances of this case, could question the retrospective promotion granted to the private respondent herein. it is not disputed that in view of the administrative lapse, the departmental promotion committee did not hold a sitting from to the respondent cannot suffer owing to such administrative lapse on the part of the state of kerala for no fault their part. it is also not disputed, that in ordinary course they were entitled to be promoted to the post of assistant directors, in the event, a page departmental promotion committee had been constituted in due time. in that view of the matter, it must be held that the state of kerala took a conscious decision to the effect that those who have been acting in a higher post for a long time, although on a temporary basis, but were qualified at the time when they were so promoted and found to be eligible by the departmental promotion committee at a later date, should be promoted with retrospective effect. .these were the reasons for our short --, therefore no ground to interfere with the decision of gilgit baltistan services tribunal pas sed in appeal no. dated vide which the appeal of the respondent was allowed and the same is upheld. consequently the appeal, is therefore dismissed with the directions to the appellant to implement the judgment of the gb services tribu nal to complete the process of consideration of the case of pro forma promotion of the respondent with back benefits within the specified period of three months. parties are, however left to bear their own cost. announced. --