page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. abdu -rahim shah petitioner. provincial government others respondents. present: -on-record for the petitioner. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith deputy advocate general and -baltistan on behalf of the respondents. ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in service appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal whereby the said service appeal filed by the petitioner was dismissed being not maintainable. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfi ed with filed leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case is heard today i.e. ... briefly the facts of the case are that the petitioner passed his matriculation examination in the year which denotes the date of birth of the petitioner as ... later on, the petitioner joined the education department as teacher on page .. and his date of birth was incorporated in his service book as .. which is same as written in his ssc record. he continued his services uninterruptedly till whereafter the respondent no. stopped the monthly salary of the petitioner on the basis of erroneous entry of date of birth in the cnic as .. which is clerical mistake of nadra authorities. the petitioner filed a civil suit in the court of learned civil the respondent no. has acknowledged the correct date of birth of the petitioner vide letter dated .. and the same has been conveyed to nadra authorities to rectify the clerical mistake made in the cnic. the petitioner made request to remove the clerical mistake and prayed to declare his correct date of birth as .. but the nadra authori ties are not ready to remove the same mistake. the petitioner also made request to direct the respondent not to stop his monthly salary but all in vain. the petitioner being aggrieved filed service appeal no. before the learned gilgit -baltistan ervice tribunal which upon hearing was dismissed being not maintainable vide impugned ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner has passed his matric ulation in the year and the matriculation cer tificate of the petitioner shows that the date of birth as .. which is also accepted by the education department. he also submits that the service book also supports the contention of the petitioner as his date of birth is ... page per learned ounsel the petitioner is performing his duties till now and the competent authorities have not issued any notificatio for retirement. he submits that the respondent no. illegally stopped the monthly salary of the petitioner on the basis of erroneous en try of date of birth in the cnic which is against the law, procedure and the service rules. he prays that the impugned .. in service appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal may graciously be set aside to meet the ends of justice. on the other hand, the learned advocate general supports the impugned .. in service appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. he contends that the date of birt of the petitioner is .. according to cnic and the record of service book is fake fabricated. per learned advocate general no final order has been challenged and no departmental appeal has been preferred by the petitioner. he contends that the etitioner has attained he age of superannuation and he is no more government servant. he further contends that all the government employees are paid their pay allowances throug online system. the respondent entered, the date of birth of the petitioner according to the information furnished by his concerned department and the system itself stopped the salary of the petitioner on attaining the age of superannuation. he prays that the impugned .. in service appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan service page tribunal may pleased be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment which transpires that the date of birth as .. of the petitioner incorporated in his service book. later on, his date of birth has inadvertently been entered in his cnic as .. which may be a clerical mistake while feeding in compute by nadra. in our considered view, he date of birth of the petitioner mentioned in the matriculation certificate as .. is correct which was subsequently entered in the service book of the petitioner accordingly. in view of the above discussi ons, we allow this appeal. consequent thereto, the impugned .. in service appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal is set aside. the respondent are directed to allow the petitioner to join his serv ice forthwith. he may be paid salaries etc as per permissible service rules. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.