page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana mu hammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. vice chancellor karakorum international university others. petitioners. nisar alam son of muhammad ayub lecturer department of economics kiu gilgit. respondent. present:- date of hearing: .. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has been directed against the impugned .. in civil misc no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil misc. filed by the respondent was accepted with the directions to the petitioner to implement the .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. consequently, the petitioner implemented the aid judgment during the court working hour by appointing the respondent as lecturer bps- on permanent basis. they, however, filed cpla no. for setting aside the said impugned order. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is eard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent was initially appointed as lecturer in karakorum international page university on .. on contract basis for a period of two years. the services of the respondent were terminated on .. on account of violation of the service rules. consequently, he preferred a departmental appeal before the review committee of kiu which was accepted and he was re -instated on his contractual service with some extra conditions. the respondent accepted the said conditions and joined his contract services on ... during the contractual services of the respondent, the petitioner advertised some posts of lectures in the daily newspaper k- dated .. for appointment as per rules of kiu gilgit baltistan. the respondent twenty one () others being aggrieved by and dissatisfied wit the said advertisement filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was accepted vide ... during the pendency of the said writ petition in the learned chief court, the contractual service of the respondent was again terminated on .. by the competent authority of the kiu on account of his involvement in sexual harassment and misconduct. the petiti oners brought the termination of the respondent into the notice of the learned chief cour vide letter dated .. as the said termination .. was not challenged by the respondent before the learned chief court through writ petition no. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that on .. during the preliminary hearing of the civil misc no. filed by the respondent in the learned chief court, the page petitioner requested for an adjournment which was turned down by the learned chief court. the case was heard without giving an opportunity of hearing to the petitioners, hence, the impugned order is not tenable. he also submits that .. passed in writ petition no. by the learned chief court is the result of the mis -interpretation of the .. this apex court while hearing a petition filed by the lecturers of kiu wherein the respondent was not a party. he further submits that in compliance of the judgment of this apex court wherein a criteria for appointment adjustment was devised. in line with the said judgment of this apex court all the petitioner were adjusted appointed on regular basis except the respondent (nisar alam) who was not on the roll of kiu at that time, therefore, his services could not be regularized. he submits that the contractual service of the respondent was again terminated on .. by the competent authority of the kiu on account of his involvement in sexual harassment and misconduct which has not been challenged by the respondent in any com petent court of law, hence, the .. issued by kiu authorities holds field. per learned counsel, the respondent on .. after lapse of three years after passing the .. by the learned chief court filed cma no. in writ petition no. for implementation which upon hearing was allowed without hearing the petitioner vide the impugned order, hence, the same is not tenable and liable to be set aside. page on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent contend that since the petitioner have not implemented the .. passed in writ petition no. despite lapse of three years, therefore, the respondent was constrained to file the said execution getting i mplement the .. the learned chief court. upon hearing, the learned chief court, has rightly accepted the said execution petition through the impugned order. consequently, the services of the respondent ha ve been regulariz ed on .. but the arrears back benefits on account of pay allowances have not been paid to him instead of the orders the learned chief court, hence, the respondent filed contempt petition in the learned chief court which upon hearing was refused to be admitted for regular hearing by the learned chief court vide impugned .. passed in civil misc. no. the respondent has challenged the said impugned order in this court which is also pend ing adjudication. per learned counsel, the learned chief court did not consider that despite the appointment of the petitioner respondent w.e.f .., he has been deprived from his legitimate right of arrears against the said period on account of pa allowances. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned .. in civil misc. no. therefore, the same is not tenable. he prays that the said impugned judgment the learned chief court may pleased be set page aside by directing the kiu authorities to pay the arrears back benefits to the petitioner respondent. we have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned .. in civil misc no. the perusal of the case file transpires that the .. passed in writ petition no. by the learned chief court has not been challenged either before this court or before the learned chief court by filing review petition by the petitioners, hence, the said judgment has got finality which had to be implemented by the kiu authorities in its letter and spirit. the respondent was constrained to file the execution implementation of the said judgment which was rightly accepted by the learned chief court vide its well reasoned i mpugned ... as far as the termination dated .. issued by the petitioner during the pendency of the writ petition in the learned chief court is concerned, the said termination is admittedly an administrative order which cannot override the order of the court. it is rather overridden by the order of the chief court with the observations that there is no adverse re marks against any of the petitioner respondent. further, the learned counsel for the petitioner could no point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned order the learned chief court, therefore, no indulgence is warranted into it by this court. page in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. in civil misc no. the learned chief court the learned chief cour is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.