page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. pla no. civil supply officer astore petitioner. muhammad shah pehlawan nasirabad tehsil shounter district astore respondent. present: the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general and -on-record for petitioner. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in criminal miscellaneous no. the learned chief court whereby said cr. miscellaneous filed by the petitioner was dismi ssed by maintaining the acquittal .. the learned trial court astore, hence, this leave to appeal. briefly, the facts of the case are that on .., the petitioner i.e. civil supply officer astore registered fir no. under section ppc against the respondent at police station astore for misappropriation of wheat bags. after completion of the investigation, the challan of the case was submitted in the learned trial court i.e. judicial magistrate on page ... the learned trial court framed charge. the respondent pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial. the prosecution in order to prove its case against the accused produced pws. out of said pws only pws were examined. the respondent filed an application under section -a cr. pc in the learned trial court which upon hearing was accepted and the respondent was acquitted from the charges leveled against him vide ... being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said order of the learned trial court, the petitioner filed cr. revision petition no. in the court of learned district ... the petitioner being aggrieved filed criminal miscellaneous no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was also dismissed by maintaining the acquittal .. the learned trial court astore, hence, this petition fo leave to appeal. the learned advocate general advocate submits that the respondent mis -appropriated bags of wheat which caused loss of rs. ,, to the government exchequer. he also submits that the respondent deposited the said amount in th government account which directly implicates the respondent with the alleged offence. per learned advocate general, there is sufficient evidence to establish the guilt of the accused and the respondent may not be acquitted in circumstances. he submits th at the learned courts below have wrongly acquitted the respondent. he submits that the page concurrent findings of the learned courts below may graciously be set aside and the case be remanded back to the learned trial court for recording statements of remaining concerned witnesses. we have heard the learned advocate general at considerable length, perused the material on record and gone through the concurrent findings the learned courts below. the learned advocate general could not point ut any illegality or infirmity in the said concurrent findings. we, therefore, are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. the leave is accordingly refused. the concurrent findings the learned courts below are maintained. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge.