page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. ahliyan yashoot through representatives petitioners. ahliyan samigal bala through representatives respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for respondents. date of hearing short order: -... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil petition has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition filed by the petitioner was dismissed by maintaining the orders of the learned courts below, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner filed a civil suit in the court of learned civil the learned civil .. disposed off both the civil suits on the basis of compromise took page place between the respective parties. later on, the respondent filed an appeal before the learned district the respondent assailed the order of the learned chief court before this apex court by filing leave to appeal wh ich was later on withdrawn by them. after withdrawal of the said petition, the respondent started second round of litigation and filed an application under section () cpc before the learned civil .. was obtained by the petitioner through misrepresentation and fraud. upon hearing the learned civil .. declared the said application of the respondent as maintainable which was upheld up to the learned chief court, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that although there are three concurrent findings in favour of the respondent yet the learned courts below fell in error while dismissing the appeals of the petitioner and passing the impugned orders. he submits that the application under section () cpc filed by the respondent in the learned trial court was not maintainable as the final order was the learned chief court on .. and no order of the superior court can be challenged in a subordinate courts. per learned counsel, the learned civil court has no jurisdiction to entertain the said page application, hence, the order learned trial court is corum -non-judice. he prays that the impugned order the learned chief court may graciously be set aside. on the other hand the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned order the learned chief court as well as the concurrent findings of the learned two courts below. he contends that the consent decre was obtained by the petitioner at the back of the respondent by not impleading them as necessary party, hence, application under section () cpc was maintainable which has rightly been accepted by the learned trial court and the said order was upheld up to the learned chief court. he prays that the impugned order may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned order as well as the concu rrent findings of the learned courts below. in our considered view, the impugned order the learned chief court as well as the concurrent findings of the learned courts below are well reasoned as no infirmity illegality is pointed out by the learned counsel for the petitioner in the said impugned order. in view of the above discussions, we convert ed this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed vide our short .. consequent thereto, the impugned order page dated .. the learned chief court is affirmed. these were the reasons of our said short order. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.