page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in c.p.l.a. no. provincial government through chief sec retary gilgit baltistan, gilgit and others. petiti oners mir fazil shah ex -director education gilgit -baltistan, gilgit and others. respondent present: advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. rehmat ali advocate -on- record on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing:- --. date of detail judgment: -.....--. judgment javed iqbal, j............. this leave to appeal has been directed by the petitioner appellant against the impugned --, the learned gilgit -baltista service tribunal vide appeal o. whereby the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal allowed the appeal of respondents, with the direction, that, appellant (present respondent are entitled for proforma promotion and monetary benefits of the promotion. respondent (present appellant are directed to place the working papers prepared by the appellant no. before the page competent forum for proforma promotion w.e.f -- as proposed in working papers. appellant haji abdur rahim was died on --, his legal heirs mst. tahira widow, khalida shabnam, shahida tabassum, naheeda andaleeb, arifa arooj daughters. hafizullah anwar and ikramullah sons are entitled to get the monetary benefits of the proforma promotion of their late father haji abdur rahim feeling aggrieve by this judgment the appellant filed leave to appeal before this court. the brief facts giving rise to the present petition as summarized by the learned counsel of the parties are that the respondent no. mir fazil shah was ret ired on --, haji abdur ahim was retired on --, akbar shahzad was retired in february, as dire ctors education bs -. the tier service structure was introduced on school side at the ratio of ::: whereby posts (three posts of directo rs education, one post of principle elementary college) were up graded from bs to bs vide ka na division letter no.iii ()() dated --. the above mentioned up -graded posts were to be filled by promotion in the first instance. during the year two directors namely syed hahzada ibrahim and ch. khalid me hmoo bs were promoted to s- and the other two posts were lying vacant for want of requisite service of the incumbents. respondent were performing their duties in bs w.e.f -- till their date of retirement mentioned above. appellant frequently approached the higher authorities for the promotion to bs page but the respondent time and again adjourned the promotion process for want of recruitment rules. however, ecruitment rules for bs were approved on -- but the respondent promoted syed shahzada, ibrahim and ch. khalid mehmood to bs without approved recruitment rules. respondent after attaining superannuation were retired consequently on --, -- and 9th february, the then secretary education prepared working papers for proforma promotion of the respondent from bs to bs w.e.f -- and forwarded to secretary services for holding meeting of departmental promotion committee. but till -- no meeting of departmental committee was held. respondent again submitted applications for ante -date promotion but the petitioner no. rejected applications of the respondent no. and alongwith five other retired officers of different departments ide order no.so(s) --() dated 16th may, against the said impugned order of petitioner no., respondent filed an appeal before the chief minister gilgit -baltistan. respondent have also filed an application to chief secretary (petitioner no. for reconsideration of his 14th may, but no action so far taken on the appeal and applications of the respondents. parawise comments on behalf of petitioner on -- wherein petitioner have contended that appeal is not maint ainable due to mis -joinder and non -joinder of necessary parties. respondent have not filed any the impugned order -- to the competent forum. appeal is time barred. respondent were retired from service after attaining superannuation and pension benefits have been page receiving as such principle of estoppel clearly applies to the contention of appellants. under the provisions of gilgit -baltistan civil servants act, a retired civil servant is not eligible for grant of promotion or pr oforma promotion. respondent were not eligible for promotion to bs at the time of their retirement. respondent have already got benefits under -tier service structure in the working paper for promotion of the respondent for posts of bs prepared by the then secretary ducation in mis-conception and misinterpretation of letter of ka na division islamabad letter dated --. the chief minister gilgit -baltistan is stranger under the provisions of gilgit -baltistan civil servants act, in respect of promotion of the appellants. the gilgit -baltistan services department has legally and validly turned down the representation of the respondent on --. appeal is not maintainable and liable to be dismissed. the appellant throug advocate general contended that learned service tribunal did not entitled ante dated proforma promotion to grade the respondent have not filed any departmental appeal. moreover, the learned service tribunal failed to consider that respondent had al ready availed the right of their service structure and not entitled further relief and appeal before service tribunal is time ba rred. principle of estoppel is cl early attracted, the respondent have been retired from service after attaining superannuation and pension benefits have been receiving. in above circumstances the learned advocate general prayed by accepting this appeal and may pleased to set aside the impugned judgment of learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal dated --. page on the other hand counsel of the respondent contended that the posts of directors bs were upgraded vide ka na division letter no.iii -()() dated 28th january, during the year directors namely syed shahzada ibrahim and ch. khalid mehmood bs- were promoted to the upgraded posts of bs -, two posts lying vacant. all respondent were performing their duties in bs w.e.f -- till their date of retirement against the posts bs -. respondent frequently approached to the higher authorities for their promotion to bs but no one or other pretext the service department did not process the instant promotion case. after retirement respondent again approached to the higher authorities for proforma promotion to bs as all respondent including one mirza ahmad khan were performing their duties in bs as directors principal elementary college w.e.f -- as notified by petitioner no. vide notification no. so(s) --() dated 6th june, but they were drawing their pay in s-. there is no mistake or lethargy on behalf of respondent in the promotion proforma promotion case it was the responsibility of petitioner to promote the respondent to the upgraded posts of directors principal elementary college bs -. petitioner were waiting for the retirement of the respondents. the delay on the part of petitioner was main cause for the retirement of respondent without promo tion to bs -. respondent against approached to the higher authorities for proforma promotion which wa considered and working papers for proforma promotion was prepared in january, and forwarded to secretary services for holding dpc meeting but the petitioner did not hold the dpc meeting. respondent again approached to petitioner no. turned down the applications of respondent no. and and page conveyed to the respondent the impugned 12th may, to the chief minister gilgit -baltistan which is still pending in the chief minister office. respondent are entitled for promotion to the osts of directors principal elementary college gilgit bs as they were already performing their duties against the said post. the learned counsel of the respondent prayed that the judgment of learned service tribunal may be maintained to the ends of jus tice. we minutely perused the record available on case file, judgment of learned service tribunal as well as arguments advanced by the counsel of both the parties. moreover the proforma promotion case of the appellant was prepared under -tier service structure, by the then secretary and submitted to service department, alongwith working papers with complete acr of years. this contention have not been denied by the appellant in their parawise comments, it transpires that, appellant by pre text do not want to accedes redress of respondents. we did not find any reason for our interference in the impugned judgment of learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal which is not suffering from any legal or factual infirmity. we proceeded to convert th is petition into an appeal and was dismissed by our short ... the appeal is dismissed in above terms. page