page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. umar khan son of khuda yar others petitioner s. all jumla malikan zangari heti goharabad tehsil chilas through lumberdar ghulam haider son of sayed ali others. respondents. present: mir. ikhlaq hussain advocate alongwith -on-record for the petitioner. rehmat ali advocate and -on-record on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision petition no. the learned gilgit baltistan chief court, whereby the petition filed by the present petitioner was accepted, by setting aside the judgment of the 1st appellate court while maintaining the judgment decree of the learned trail court. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this petition. this court issued notices to the respondent vide .. and the case was heard on ... page consequently this petition was converted into an appeal and the same was dismissed vide our short ... briefly the facts of the case are that the petitioner plaintiff filed civil suit no. and in he learned civil according to the averments of above plaint that all the petitioner are lineal decedents of one mirza khan who was the alleged owner of the heti and who migrated to chakarkot sai juglote marrying there and his property was remained with the off -springs of his brothers undivided. on .. the above persons handed over the share of the petitioner property. it was further claimed in the plaint that the petitioner plaintiff like the present respondent are getting the malikana royalty etc but about years before the filing of the suit in hand, some persons from respondent denied payment of royalty in respect if gais nallah whereupon the parties got a decision on oath from the raja mir baz khan (late) and on the basis of which the petitioner were paid the above royalty as per their share. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that their clients are the off -springs of one mirza khan who was an owner of zangari heti at gohara bad but due to his marrying wit a lady at chakar kot in juglote sai district gilgit used to reside there because the lady had her own property at juglote whereas his own property page from paternal side remained undivided with his co -sharers at zangari heti, goharabad, district diamer and now these co -sharers have returned the share of land to the petitioner on .. he further submits that they being owners of zangari heti have been receiving benefits like malikana and royalty therefrom. they also submits that five years prior to the institution of the suit the malikans of goharabad had received some amount as malikana in respect of a forest situ ated at gais nallah. later on the respondent denied to pay the same share to the petitioner plaintiff in the said amount. the dispute, however, was resolved by one raja mir baz khan who told to the respondent that the petitioner plaintiff are owners of zangari heti like of the respondent defendants. he also submits that the petitioner have paid their shares of amount to the respondent to meet expenses of the litigation cropped up between goharabad and gunar farm over kinodas. he further submits tha three days prior to the filing of suit in question when the royalty and malikana amount in respect of gayal forest was being distributed among the malikans of goharabad, the respondent again refused to pay the share to the petitioner and this denial constrained the parties to the instant litigation. he reiterates that the respondent themselves admitted in their evidence that the petitioner are the owner of zangari heti being the off -spring of one mirza khan who later on shifted to chakarkot juglote ai long time ago while not waiving his rights in the ancestral property situated at zangari heti goharabad nor the said mirza khan sold out his page property to anyone. he finally argued that the learned chief court fell in error while deciding the civil revisi on and passing the impugned .. filed by the petitioner which according to them is not sustainable and liable to be set aside being the result of misconception of law and facts. on the other hand the learned counsel for the respondent support the impugned .. in civil revision petition no. the learned gilgit baltistan chief court. they contend that neither mirza khan nor any other petitioner are the malikan of goharabad as the said mirza khan left the goharabad approximately years ago. they further contend that their off -springs have also remained unconcerned with the affairs of the said hethi. they argued that the land given the petitioner by their co -shares wa the result of collusion and who have never received any share in the malikana royalty from the zangari hethi nor they have paid any amount to the respondent to meet the expenses of litigation over kinodass goharabad as such the question of refusal of th respondent defendant with regard to the payment of royalty malikana to the petitioner received by them against gayal forest does not arise. they finally contend that the suit of the petitioner has rightly been dismissed by the learned trial court chilas district diamer which was barred by time. they pray that the impugned .. in civil revision petition page no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court may graciously be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil revision petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgments of the learned courts below. the perusal of the materials available on the record of the case file transpires that the grand -father of the petitioner plaintiff had migrated from goharabad district diamer to chakarkot juglote sai district gilgit approximately years ago. the said mirza khan grand -father of the petitioner during his life time never turned up and claimed the rights of royalty malikana nor his first generation claimed for the said collective rights of th said village from where their grand -father migrated to another district. all of sudden and after lapse of a considerable period of two and half century, the third fourth generation of the said mirza khan alleged that they have the rights of royalty malikana from the forest of the said area merely on the basis of a story that an arbitration was conducted by one raja mirbaz khan who reportedly decided the matter in question in favour of the petitioner but the same has not been corroborated by any reliable evidence or any statement of any prosecution witness. the plaintiff petitioner even could not prove their ancestral property locate at zangari heti go harabad owned, possessed and looked after by any of their relatives residing at the page said village. the learned trial court has rightly held that the suit of the plaintiff is barred by time which was upheld by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. moreo ver, the petitioner themselves admitted that their fore father has willfully abandoned the rights long time ago which cannot be regained without obtaining its basic source. the perusal of the available record further reveals that the petitioner are thems elves ignorant about the actual quantity of land and its status and even the fact that how many kanals and marlas of land of their forefather is situated in the three suit villages of goharabad district diamer. their attorney during the cross -examination pws has failed to identify that where the land of his forefather is situated and where the share of hi grandfather lies among the off -springs of the brother of grandfather mirza khan. similarly, the petitioner are also ignorant regarding the initiation of the project of water channel to gais pain dass. the petitioner do not have any knowledge with regard to the maintenance of damalchal water channel and their participation in it thereto. it is rightly held by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court that an inhabitant of a village can get his share of royalty as malik, if he is temporally ut of his village for years and he is otherwise connected with the local affairs of locality. in view of the above discussion, we converted this petition into an appeal and the same was dismissed vide our short .. as the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality, infirmity and mis -appreciation of page evidence on record. consequently, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the .. in civil suit no. the learned civil these were the reasons of our short ... the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not? page which upon hearing was dismissed vide ... whereafter the petitioner feeling aggrieved filed civil first appeal no. before the learned district .. and the judgment decree of he learned civil the respondent being aggrieved by and dissatisfies with made impugned the judgment of the learned district -baltistan chief court which upon hearing was accepted vide impugned .. in civil revision no. while setting aside the judgment decree dated .. the learned district chilas district diamer.