page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. civil appeal no. in cpla no. muhammad shafa petitioner. abdur -ur-rahim through lrs respondents. present: johar ali advocate for the petitioner. ali nazar khan advocate -on-record on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: .. order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil revision filed by the respondent was allowed throughout while reversing the impugned orders of the courts below by proceeding the petitioner ex -parte. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly the facts of the case are that th respondent plaintiff filed a civil suit no. -a--a in the court of learned civil .ii gilgit which upon hearing was dismissed vide ... on appeal he learned page first appellate court district the petitioner feeling aggrieved filed civil revision no. before the learned chief court which upon hearing was allowed vide impugned ... per the averments of the pet itioner on .. the petitioner was present in the court whereas his counsel was not in attendance being busy in other cases. the learned chief court proceeded the petitioner ex -parte, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner with the due permission of the learned chief court left the court in order to inform request his counsel to attend the case. he also submits that when the petitioner arrived back in court the case was proce eded ex -parte vide impugned ... he submits that the said impugned order is not sustainable and liable to be set aside as the petitioner condemned unheard. he prays that the impugned .. may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court. he contends that the petitioner were given ample opportunities to appear and argue his ase in the learned chief court but he could not attend the court. he prays that the impugned page .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court may graciously be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned chief court. admittedly, the said impugned order has been passed ex -parte and no opportunity of hearing has been iven to the petitioner which is against the principle of natural justice. in view of the above, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. the case is remanded back to the learned chief court to hear and decide afresh on its own erit in accordance with law. consequent thereto the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court is set aside. the petition is disposed off in above terms. chief judge. judge.