page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. inayat others petitioners. muhammad musa others respondents. present: johar ali khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the provincial government gilgit -baltistan. muhammad musa respondent present in person. ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the civil miscellaneous no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed by maintaining the .. the learned chief court, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case was heard today. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that during the pendency of civil revisions filed by both the parties in the learned chief court an interim injunction was granted in favour page of the respondent vide order ated ... consequently, the petitioner were directed not to dispossess the respondent plaintiff till the final decision of the said civil revisions. the petitioner being aggrieved filed review petition no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was dismissed vide impugned order ... per learned counsel, since the petitioner are in possession of the suit land, hence, the dispossession of the respondent from the suit property is not understandable. he submits that the impugne order be graciously modified by directing the respective parties to maintain the status quo. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned order as well as the order the courts below. admittedly, the civil revisions filed by both the respective parties are pending adjudication in the learned chief court. the impugned order is an interim order granted in favour of the respondents. we have also perused the judgment of the learned trial court which was partially decreed in favour of the respondent holding that he is in possession of the suit land. in our considered view, the said impugned interim order is well reasoned and no interference i warranted inti it by this court. in view of the above discussions, we convert this civil petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned chief court is affirmed. page the appe al is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?