page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. ulfat nijat son muhammad nijat gahkuch district ghizer respondent. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith iqbal deputy advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil petition has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the civil first appeal no. filed by petitioner was disposed of by directing the learned district collector for correction of the initial award in the name of respondent ulfat nijat son of muham mad nijat. the district collector ghizer was also directed to recover the amounts of initial award (no.dk -() dated ..) from the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissat isfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner acquired lands of the respondent measuring kanal for page construction of city park in district headquarter gahkuch ghizer. consequently, the award no. dk -() dated .. was passed. the revenue field staff prepared compensation papers of the acquired land for payment of the same at th rate of rs. per kanal alongwith compulsory acquisition charges. the amount of compensation was paid to the respondent in three installments. the amount of compensation was received by the respondent under protest as the respondent was not sa tisfied with the compensation rate. later on, the respondent feeling aggrieved filed reference petition under section of the land acquisition act, in the court of learned land acquisition ... consequently, the rate of the land was enhanced from rs. to rs. per kanal. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the judgment of the learned land acquisition in the learned chief court which upon hearing was disposed off vide impugned judgment, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that the award earlier the learned district collector was in accordance with the market rate of the land in question. the compensation was accordingly paid to the respondent. per learned advocate general, the respondent has no locus standi to file reference under secti on of the land acquisition act, the learned courts below failed to appreciate the facts and law while passing the impugned page judgments. he submits that the respondent filed the reference for enhancement of the land belatedly. the learned chief cour in utter violation of law directed the petitioner to pass a new and fresh award in the name of respondent while recovering the amount from the attorney of the respondent which is not tenable in law. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned judgment, therefore, the same is not sustainable and liable to be set aside. we have heard the learned advocate general at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment the learned hief court as well as the .. in civil suit reference no. the learned land acquisition the learned advocate general could not point out any infirmity or illegality in the impugned judgme nt. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.