page in the supreme appel late court gilgit -baltistan cm no. in cpla no governor gilgit -baltistan and others. .. .. petitioner hafiz hafee z-ur-rehman ...................................... respondent advocate general gilgi t-baltistan hafiz hafeez -ur-rehman, respondent in person. secretary local government, gilgit -baltistan -- this petition has been preferred against the -- the chief court in a writ petition filed by respo ndent whereby letter dated issued by the chief minister secretariat gilgit in connection with the nomination of the members of dehi council in gilgit -baltistan by newly elected assembly has been suspended. the local council bodies in gilgit -baltistan were dissolved by -- of the governor of the gilgit -baltistan under section of the northern areas local government order with the appointment of administrators to perform the function of the local council and this arrangem ent is continued. the respondent questioned the legality of the action in respect of nomination of members of dehi council by the members of assembly being in violation of section of the northern areas local government order and chief court suspend ed the operation of letter dated --. section () of northern areas local government order provies that members of dehi council shall be nominated by union council in a prescribed manner and in subsection () of the said section it is provi ded that dehi council shall be non formal bodies and shall not constitute tier of local government. page the grievance of the petitioner is that in consequence to the order the chief court the public projects of the local councils already approved with allocation of budget in the current financial year have been struck up as the administrators may not be able to utilize the funds on these project which will lapse by 30th june hafiz hafeez -ur-rehman respondent, present in person stated that his objection was in respect of the nomination of dehi council by the members of the newly elected assembly in violation of provision of section ibid so that new development schemes of their choice may not be included in ongoing local government projects. dehi council is not a part of local council or is also not substitute of local council to perform its function rather in absence of local council administrator appointed by the government have to perform all functions of local councils and consequently he apprehension of parties regarding lapse of allocated funds for non utilization or use of funds on the scheme not already approved is unfounded. this civil miscellaneous is accordingly disposed of with observation that notwithstanding the close of fina ncial year the budget already allocated for the approved scheme will continue for utilization on the said schemes by the administrators strictly in accordance with law without any outside intervention and these funds will not be used on any new scheme not already approved in annual development program for the financial year closing on --. the main petition will be fixed for a date in the next week. chief judge