page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. collector settlement officer others petitioners. syed muhammad hussain others respondents. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil first appeal filed by the petitioner was dismiss ed being devoid of merit, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and notices were issued to the respondent accordingly. briefly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner no. i.e. education department gilgit -baltistan initiated a project of construction of f.g boys high school jalalabad as per prevailing policy that the inhabitants were required to provide land free of cost for the said project. the inhabitants of the village hande over a page piece of land through a registered agreement during the year the people of the area were also collected donations in shape of rupees to compensate the people who have donated their land free of cost for the education department gilgit -baltis tan. during the riots of the said donated collected amount was burnt alongwith other articles of the school. later on, it was decided to compensate the land owners through acquisition of land under the land acquisition act in this regard an award was passed which was challenged by the respondents. the respondent no. namely syed muhammad hussain syed amin shah filed a reference no. under section of the land acquisition act, in the learned district refe ree ... being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, both the parties assailed the said judgment before the learned chief court. upon hearing, the learned chief court refused the appeal of the respondent with the observation that the learned referee court has rightly appreciated the value of acquired land of petitioner by enhancing the rate compensation from rs. to rs. per kanal whereas the appeal of the petitioner was partially accepted to the extent of compound interest on the compensation amount determined by the learned referee court from the date of passing of award i.e. .. till payment of the award as provided under the provision of section of the la nd acquisition act, the petitioner being aggrieved filed cp la no. before this page court praying therein that neither the learned trial referee court nor the learned chief court attended the question relating to the actual date of possession and payment of interest under section of the land acquisition act, this court vide .. remanded the case back to the learned referee the learned referee in support of the additional issue, the petitioner got recorded statements of two () pws namely murtaza khan and anwar shah jalalabad. the respondent also produced two () rws namely daulat mir and mirbaz ali. on the basis of above evidence, the learned referee the petitioner feeling aggrieved filed civil first appeal no. before the learned chief court which upon hearing was dism issed being devoid of merit, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that on the request of inhabitants i.e. notables and umberdars of the area, the disputed land was acquired free of cost by the petitioner for construction of high school. the said notables and representatives were responsible to compensate the land donors and accordingly they had collected fund to meet the cost of the acquired land. he also submits that they have collected accordingly and handed over the same to head master middle school jalalabad. in the year it was intimated that the donated collected amount was page burnt during sectarian violation erupted in the area. per learned advocate general, the petitioner as a matter of courtesy sympa thy initiated a case for approval of reasonable amount to compensate the land donors. accordingly an award was passed which was challenged and the respondent filed reference in the learned referee which upon hearing was allowed in favour of the respondents. he further submits that the order of the learned referee court district he reiterates that the learned chief court has also failed to apply its judicial mind to determine the actual date of possession of the said land. he submits that the land acquired for construction of said school by the provincial government was a ommon barren land belonging to the government, however, the said land was in possession of the respondents. the land in question was never acquired from the respondent and the compensation of the said has been enhanced to rs. from rs. due to misconception of law. he submits that the impugned judgment the learned chief court is the result of misconception of law and misreading non reading of the facts of the case, hence, the same is not sustainable. he prays that the impugned ju dgment may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, .. in civil first appeal no. page the learned chief court. he cont ends that the suit land is in possession of the respondent which shows that they are the real owners of the land in question. per learned counsel, the respondent have successfully proved their case through documentary as well as oral evidence. he submits that the learned chief court has rightly dismissed the civil first appeal filed by the petitioners. he submits that the impugned judgment the learned chief court may pleased be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we ave heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through impugned judgment the learned chief court. admittedly, the respondent have successfully proved their case through documentary an oral evidence. in our considered view, a factual controversy was involved which was resolved after recording of evidence through additional issue on disputed land in the learned referee court. further, the learned advocate general also could not point ou any infirmity or illegality in the impugned judgment. the impugned judgment the learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded, hence, interference into it is not warranted by this court. in view of the above discussions, we dismiss this appeal. consequently, the impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court is affirmed. page the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.