page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at registry branch skardu rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. -ud-din, judge. cpla no. the collector land acquisition, district skardu. the secre tary works, gilgit -baltistan gilgit. the superintendent engineer, pwd, skardu. petitioner appellants. muhammad akbar khan haji ghulam muhammad olding skardu. respondent. civil leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan empowerment self governance order read with order xiii of gilgit -baltistan supreme appellate court rules against the judgment decree dated the learned division bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan camp at skardu, whereby the learned chief court partly accepted the appeal and exclude the rent for shops while rest of judgment decree of the referee court dated upheld. for setting aside the same to the extent of upholding of rest of judgment decree of referee court dated (enhancement of value of two shops from rs. to rs. each shop alongwith compulsory acquisition charge and compound interest till realization of the amount by declering respondent as owner of evacue property to meet the ends of justice. present: .the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the petitioners. advocate for the respondent. date of hearing: --. date of detail judgment: ... page judgment dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj.....this petition assailed the impugned judgment in civil first appeal no. dated .. the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan. whereby, the appeal of the petitioner was partially accepted while excluded the rent for th shops, whereas the rest of the .. of referee court skardu was upheld. briefly stated facts of the case are that the respondent (muhammad akber khan filed an application under section of the land acquisition act against the impugned award dated .., the learned collector skardu. which was referred to the referee court (district judge) skardu. the land of the respondent was acquired for extension of jeep able road to truck able road in the year1981. the value shops was assessed by the northern areas work organization (nawo). accordingly, a sum of rs. was fixed as compensation including compulsory acquisition charges. being aggrieved from the impugned award, the respondent petitioner filed appli cation under section of land acquisition act the respondent prayed for the following relief in his petition under section of land acquisition act value of shops may be enhanced up to rs. per shop. rent rs. per month eac shop with compulsory acquisition charges. compound interest per year till the realization of the amount. the learned trial he page accepted the pe tition by granting the relief as prayed vide his ... the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied filed civil 1st appeal no. dated ... upon hearing he learned chief court, gilgit accepted the appeal and case was remande back to referee court for fresh tria after impleading the secretary works and superintending engineer as party in the reference petition. after impleading the respondent as party to the petition, parties lead additional evidence and the tr ial court ac cepted the petition and granted decree as prayed for vide impugned ... the appellant collector feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with impugned judgment .., the learned referee court skardu the petitioner appellant filed an appeal again before learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan, raying therein that the learned referee court skardu has erred while not relying the assessment of the compensation of the acquired property carried out by the government rganization i.e. northern areas works organization (nawo), hence, the impugned order having no legal force and secondly, he submitted that the rent of the acquire shops was illegally awarded by the tria court to respondent as there is no provision in law for awarding such type of benefit with compulsory charges and compound interest. upon hearing the learned counsel for the respective parties the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan as mentioned earlier partially allowed the appeal while rest of the order of the learned referee court passed on .. was upheld. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan ubmits on behalf of the page petitioner that the impugned .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan as well as the .. the learned referee court skardu are illegal and void passed against the revenue record and material of the case file. he further contended that ac quired property carried out by the government organization i.e. northern areas works organization (nawo), hence, the impugned judgment order having no legal force and secondly, he submitted that the rent of the acquired shops wa illegally awarded by the tr ial court skardu to respondent as there is no provision in aw for awarding such type of benefit with compulsory charges and compound interest. he in support of his contentions relied upon the following case laws: scmr ,, case titled ghullam muhammad government of west pakistan mld case titled muhammad aslam land acquisition collector, lahore. mld case titled muhammad afzal others government of sindh through chief secretary others. pld case titled gulzaman and others collector land ac quisition, peshawar. pld case titled col. bashir hussain others land acquisition collector, lahore. pld ,, case titled province of punjab through project director sher muhammad another. pld hyderabad develop ment authority through m.d. abdul majeed others. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan lastly contended that the petitioner being necessary party have not been impleaded hence condemned unheard which is against the principle of natural justice. he also submits that under section page of the land acquisition act, the objections shall have been filed within six () months whereas in the instant case the objection were raised on .. and application against the objection has bee filed after delay of nine () years. the value assessed by learned referee court on the basis of assumptions and no justification was offered. further i support thereto no document are available on record. the prevailing rates as appear in page of the paper book at serial no and has not been rebutted by the respondent. the value assessed on me re assertion is not admissible as per parameter laid down by the superior courts for assigning and determination of potential value of the land in questi on. while saying so the learned advocate general relied upon a case law reported in scmr, page in respect of limitation in filing objection under section of the land acquisition act, on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respon dent submits that the learned court has rightly framed additional issues after conclusion of the tr ial. the appeal of the respondent was rightly accepted by the learned appellate ourt as well as by the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan under section of land acquisition act as prayed for. he finally prayed that the order judgment of both the courts below be maintained in the interest of we have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties, perused the record and gone thro ugh both the judgments of the courts below. the case laws relied upon by the learned page advocate general gilgit -baltistan are applicable. consequently this petition was converted into in appeal and allowed. the impugned .. in cfa no. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan and the .. in cos no. the additional district whereas the award no. dk. () dated .. the learned collector deputy commissioner skardu is maintained. these were the reasons for our short ... the appeal is allowed. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be recorded or not?