page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge, in chamber. smc. no. (complaint against police personnel) present: malik kafayat -ur-rehman advocate president chief court bar association alongwith and haji abid ali baig advocate. the inspector general of police gilgit -baltistan alongwith hassan ali acting sp hunza nagar. order date d: ... after hearing malik kafayat -ur-rehman, president, chief court, bar association, dsp acting superintendent police district hunza nagar and the leaned inspector general of police gilgit -baltistan, the mat ter was amicably resolved as under: (a) that muhammad sharif, police constable, posted at rahimabad check post be suspended immediately and an inquiry be initiated against him in accordance with law. (b) in case, in view of the above, the learned inspector general police ordered to the superintendent police, present in chamber to suspend the said constable forthwith and initiate an inquiry against him in accordance with law. in case, the matter will be closed. the page inspector general police and the president bar association has to keep liaison and coordination with each other to minimize misunderstandings complaints in order to keep up healthy relations between the two institutions i.e. bar and olice. malik kafayat -ur-rehman, president, chief court, bar association and office bearers present are satisfied with the aforementioned steps action taken by the learned inspector general of police, gilgit -baltistan. consequently, the chief court, bar association has end up their protest. this court, however, appreciates the positive effective role of -ur-rehman, president, chief court bar association and of capt. (r) inspector general of police gilgit -baltistan in resolving the matter in a pleasant atmosphere. the copy of this order be sent to -ur-rehman, president, chief court, bar association and the learned inspector general of police gilgit -baltistan respectivel y. the smc no. is disposed off in above terms. chief judge.