page in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan at gilgit smc no. (complaint against pid by sada -e-gilgit) advocate general gilgit -baltistan -e-gilgit director pid gilgit advocate on be half of sada -e-gilgit --. the report submitted by director pid gilgit reveals that daily sada -e- gilgit was delisted from central media list maintained by ministry of information government of pakistan vide -- for he charges of filing false statement with fake verification of director pid gilgit, and in consequence thereto a case under section and ppc was also registered against sada -e-gilgit vide fir no. dated june at police station city gilgi t. the dig crime present in court in connection with another case on asking of the court has stated that he will issue necessary instruction to the concerned police officials for early submission of challan in the case in accordance with law. the newspape has filed this complaint before this court for its enlistment on the basis of rule of fair and equal treatment in the press. the director pid present in court has informed us that the management of newspaper has filed a civil suit in the matter in which the civil court as well as the first appellate court declined to grant temporary relief on the question of enlistment. the management of newspaper instead of availing proper remedy before the chief court, against the order of civil court has filed this ap plication which is not maintainable. -e-gilgit has submitted that the newspaper has been discriminated for the reason of not following the policy of government in respect of publication of news as per choice of government. -employee of daily sada -e-gilgit has also filed an application that publication of daily sada -e-gilgit is without lawful page authority as the newspaper on the basis of haft roza declaration is publishing daily newspaper. the applicant in supp ort thereof has placed on record certain notifications. without going into the question of legality or illegality of the declaration of newspaper and the policy of government in respect of official publication, we would like to observe that pending civil suit on the subject before the civil court this court is not supposed to interfere in the matter in its original jurisdiction under article of government of gilgit -baltistan and this application is disposed of with observation that the applicants may avail appropriate remedy in accordance with law. however the learned civil the director pid may look into the complain of daily sa da-e-gilgit in respect of grievance of discriminatory treatment and also in the complaint of ishtiaq syed, involving the question of illegality of declaration of sada -e- gilgit and submit his report to the concern authorities in the ministry of information government of pakistan for appropriate action by the competent authority in accordance with law. this application and complaint of ishtiaq syed are accordingly disposed of. chief