page in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan c.p.la no. chief judge. judge. meharban ali hatim baig sher qillah tehsil punial district ghizer. petitioner shakoor khan mir salam khan dany ore (muhammad abad) tehsil and istrict gilgit. respondent leave to appeal under article of gilgit baltistan empowerment and sel governance order against he -- the chief court in civil second appeal no. present: shah zaheer khan advocate on special permission for respondent. date of hearing: -- judgment: this appeal by leave of the court has been preferred by the petitioner against the judgment --, learned single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan, where in the learned chief court has set aside the judgment order of additional district --, by upholding the judgment dec ree civil --, hence this leave to appeal. page the background of the litigation is, that the plaintiff respondent was sold a patch of land measuring eight () kanals alongwith its constructed structure situate at village sherqilla tehsil unial, district ghizer, in consideration of rs., -. parties entered into an agree ment of sale of the suit property described at the heading of the amended plaint. possession of the suit property was handed over to the petitioner defendant on partial paymen of rs.,, to plaintiff, (shakoor khan while remaining amount of rs.,, was agreed to be paid to plaintiff by the end of september plaintiff respondent continuously dema nded and requested for payment of remaining amount of sale but petitioner defendant did not pay outstanding amount to plai ntiff as agree d. resultantly laintiff filed a declaratory suit with consequential relief to the effect that the plaintiff is entitled as per agreement to get the sale agreement revo ked against a fine of rs., and is entitled to suit property, as a consequential relief has prayed for the possession of suit land. plaintiff has also prayed for an alternate relief that in otherwise, case, a decree for the price of suit property according to prevailing market rate may be passed in his favour. the present petitioner de fendant contested the suit on legal as well as factual grounds. in view of controversial stance of the parties, the dispute was put to issue and recording evidence. plaintiff respondent in support of issues has recorded his own statement and examined thre pw and one rw. muhammad hussai n, the scriber of document exh.d (agreement to sale). on the other hand petitioner defendant filed the deed exh.d and examined one dw beside his own statement. page at the conclusion of trial the learned civi court decided the suit in favour of plaintiff and passed the decr ee in civil suit no. felt aggrieved and dissatisfied the present petitioner defendant filed first appeal before the additional district judge, ghizer. the learned additional district in civil suit no. plaintiff respondent filed second the judgment decree the learned before the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. the learned single bench of chief court gilgit baltistan has set aside the impugned judgment decree the learned additional district --, hence this leave to appeal. eave to appeal has been admitted for hearing on merits subject to deposit of sum of rs., in the office of registrar as fixed by the arbitrators. short --, is reproduced herein below for clarification: notice to respondent for a date in office, the petitioner in the meanwhile deposit a sum of rs., (eighty thousand only) in the office of registrar as fixed by he arbitrators arguments heard and relevant record perused. learned counsel for the petitioner ., -. he ju stified his act of non payment on the ground that the plaintiff respondent had showed him a patch of land measuring kanals but subsequently when he measured the same it was less then kanals. hence he stopped the remaining amount. page counsel for petitioner refer the deed exh. wherein it is mentioned that the quantity of suit property () kanals. he further submits that the suit is incompetent, no cause of action as allege in the plaint is available against the petitioner defendant. plaintiff respondent has failed to comply the condition imposed in the deed exh.d hence the plaintiff is not entitled for the relief prayed for. he further added, that the parties jointly submitted an application on --, before the requesting th erein for referring the matter to the arbitrators. the learned single bench of chief court was referred the matter to arbitrators on --, the nominated arbitrators submitted award on --, which was read over to the parties, parties jointly req uested, that they are not inclined to file objection on the award. the present petitioner was deposited the amount but the respondent plaintiff has refused to receive the same. concluding his arguments learned counsel for the etitioner prayed, that by accepting this leave to appeal impugned judgment decree dated -- may be set aside and suit may be dismissed. on the other hand counsel for respondent plaintiff () seeks pecial permission to appear and argue the case in supreme appellate court. permission was granted by their lordship chief the learned counsel for the respondent plaintiff strongly opposed and submits, that the pet itioner defendant has utterly failed to comply the condition imposed in the deed exh.d and failed to pay remaining amount of rs., to the plaintiff respondent by the end of september due to non payment on stipulated time plaintiff have page no option except to file present suit for possession of disputed land. the violation of agreement to sale and non payment of remaining amount is admitted on record. he further submits that the suit for declaration with consequential relief for possession of uit land is legally tenable, because petitioner defendant himself admits the agreement of sale deed and its partial execution. he further argued that the disputed land as well as the lands of whole district ghizer is un-settled, as such no revenue record is available through which quantity of land can be ascertained. therefore, the plaintiff respondent has sold the property within the described boundaries mentioned in ex.d but parties were at variance, therefore the learned single bench of chief court as referred the matter to the arbitrators on --.arbitrators submitted award on --, parties jointly requested to the chief court for compliance of arbi tration award just to avoid further unbearable litigation. at the end of his arguments the earned counsel for plaintiff respondent request that this leave to appeal may be dismissed as meritless, to meet the ends of justice. we have anxiously considered the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties and caref ully examined the reco rd available on file which shows that oth the parties admit the agreement to sale and its execution. petitioner defendant has utterly failed to pay the remaining amount of rs., with in stipulated period as indicated in exh. admittedly ransaction regarding disputed land has taken place on the basis of an iqrar nama agreement to sale between the parties, wherein exact figures have been showed about kanals. although it is an admitted fact that the area is unsettled and with out proper demarcation, a common man can not mention quantity page of land. moreover it is prime duty of vendor to confirm the quantity of land before release of its first installment of rs., beside this petitioner was in knowledge that except his patch of land no land is in possession of plaintiff respondent in the vicinity. petitioner defendant is in posses sion of land alongwith house, cattle sheds and is enjoying the benefits of the land by using the delaying tactics. notwithstanding this, pe titioner defendant failed to comply the orders of single bench of chief court dated --, wherein the present petitioner defendant was directed to deposit the amount of rs., till -- but he failed to comply the orders of court rather he tried to misrepresent by presenting a fake purcha peshi. therefore, the awarded amount of rs.. was returned back to him due to non compliance and non payment in time, as such the arbitration award dated --, has become in fructuous and rightl set aside the same the learned single bench of chief court gilgit baltistan. as discussed above, we agreed with the judgment decree the single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan dated --, and dismissed petition fo leave to appeal as meritless. deposit of rs., (eighty thousand only) will be released to the petitioner defendant after fulfillment of codal formalities. file. leave refused. announced: --. chief