page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. cpla. no. chief judge. judge. provincial government through chief secretary gb. the secretary food gilgit -baltistan. the director food gilgit -baltistan. civil supply officer diamer chillas. petitioner appellant fiaz ahmed abdullah khan goner farm district diamer. respondent petitioner. abdul jahan abdul qayyum acsi (bps -) civil upply. proforma respodent leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order against the impugned judgment .. chief court gilgit -baltistan in writ petition no. present:- the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the petitioners. dated of hearing: -- judgment dr. rana muhammad shamim,, cj the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan contends that the food and agriculture department, government of gilgit -baltistan advertised various posts on .. including posts of assistant civil supply inspectors (acsi) bps and only one post was filled in and one muhammad yaqoob sair ali was selected after taking test interview as page he got first position as per merit list. subsequently, more posts of assistant civil supply inspector bps were created sanctioned. the respondent no. abdul jahan was selected against one of the said posts. he further submits that the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan by following an out dated analogy of selection allowed the petition filed by the respondent no. vide writ petition no. on .. and directed the appellant to appoint him for the post applied for as he got 2nd position in the merit list. while accepting the petition and passing the following order setting the things correct: (a). respondent no. to are directed to issue pas office order appointing petitioner with effect from 1st september ..) against the posts of acsi bps- in the department of respondent no. to (b). petitioner be placed after of department of respondent no. to (c). respondent no. to pay arrears of full pay with allowance to the petitioner with effect from .. against the post of acsi bps -. (d). respondent no. to to submit their compliance report of ab ove order within one month from today, failing which to show cause that why they should not be proceeded for violating merit in making appointments in violation of the merit list referred in the petition and also for none compliance of this order. the lea rned advocate general further submits that the .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court gilgit page baltistan based on misconception and on an out dated analogy of selection and the same is liable to set aside. on he other hand, (bps were not admittedly advertised in the newspapers and against one those posts one abdul jahan abdul qay oom has been selected appointed by the appellant secretly as he got 3rd position in the test interview, whereas, the respondent no. fiaz ahmed abdullah khan was ignored inspite of the fact that he got 2nd position in the test interview as per merit list. he was ignored by the appellant for the best reason known to them, which is contrary to the fundamental rights guaranteed under article -() of gilgit -baltistan (self empowerment governance) order, as well as the enabling articles of the con stitution of islamic republic of pakistan. he further contended that the respondent no. has preferential right over the respondent no. for the appointment for one of the said two vacant posts as per final merit list, which is against principle of natur al he further submits that the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan appearing on behalf of the petitioner could not find out any infirmity and illegality in the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan and prayed that the same be maintained in its letters and spirits. we heard the learned counsel for the parties, perused that material on record and agree with the contention raised by the petition is converted into an appeal and partially allowed with the modification that the respondent no. be appointed as assistant civil supply inspector (bps -) with prospective effect i.e. from the date of issuance of his appointment letter by the office of respondent no. thereto. rest of the page conditions laid down by the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan in its .. are deleted herein. the petition is partially allowed with the above modifica tion. chief