page page of (prov. got. nazia yaqoob in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit chief (against the .. the gilgit baltistan service tribunal, gilgit in service appeal no. govt. of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary secretary education gilgit -baltistan director general schools, gilgit -baltistan deputy director education, astore accounts officer agpr, astore petitioner nazia yaqoob yaqoob khan, currently serving as elementary school teacher (bps -) at girls high school rehmanpore, astore respondent present: for the petitioner s: advocate general, gilgit -baltistan date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: -this judgment shall dispose of the instant civil leave to appeal directed against the .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal in service appeal no. whereby service appeal filed by the present respondent was accepted, whereby the present petitioner were directed to release the stopped salary of the respondent page page of (prov. got. nazia yaqoob and to constitut medical board for medical checkup of the ailing baby daughter of the respondent as well. the respondent, while working as elementary school teacher (bs -) underwent a maternity operation gave birth to a baby girl having disease of hydrocephalus and melingomycel. in view of her medical condition, the new born baby girl was referred to pims, islamabad for neurosurg ical operation which was conducted by a neurosurgeon on .. at ali medical hospital and was discharged on ... the present respondent in her service appeal before the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal contended that the neurosurgeon a dvised her to keep the ailing baby daughter at high care under the supervision of a child specialist. it was further contented that another child specialist, dr. manzoor alam also advised her to keep the ailing baby daughter close to a hospital where pediatric caring was available. the respondent further contended in her appeal before the learned service tribunal that since there was no pediatric facility available in district astore, therefore, in order to avail proper care and treatment of her ailing baby daughter, the respondent requested for transfer of her services from district astore to hq gilgit on medical grounds. the next aspect of the case in hand is stoppage of salary of the respondent for the period she allegedly remained absent from duty in connection with the treatment of her ailing baby daughter. the respondent claims to have submitted a departmental appeal on .. to the authorities of education department, gilgit -baltistan for release of her salary but the same remained unattended. being aggrieved, the present respondent invoked the jurisdiction of the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal by page page of (prov. got. nazia yaqoob means of service appeal no. wherein she sought two reliefs (i) issuance of directions to the concerned authorities for transfer of her services from district astore to district gilgit on medical ground; and (ii directions for release of her stopped salary. keeping in view the financial hardships owing to medical expense in connection with treatment of her ailing baby daughter, learned service tribunal directed the petitioner to release salary of the present respondent within days from the date of receipt of the judgment while with regard to the prayer regarding transfer of services from astore to gilgit on medical ground, the concerned authorities were directed to constitute a medical board and as per recommendations of the medical board, her case for transfer of services was ordered to be considered. being aggrieved and dissatisfied, the present petitioner have now impugned the judgment the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribun al before this court by way of the cpla in hand. the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan argued that the respondent could not claim transfer of her services from district astore to district gilgit on the medical ground as the medical facility equired for ailing baby daughter of the respondent were already available in district astore. it was next contended by the learned advocate general that the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal erred in law and held the present respondent entitled for salary for the period she remained absent from duty without leave. it was next contended by the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan that an inquiry is under progress against the present respondent on account of her absence; therefore, release of her salary at this stage would spoil the purpose of page page of (prov. got. nazia yaqoob inquiry. at the conclusion and on the basis of submissions, the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan prayed for setting aside the impugned judgment the learned gilgit-baltistan service tribunal. we have heard the arguments advanced by the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan and also gone through the record and the impugned judgment as well. we observe that the impugned judgment does not contain any order detrimental to the interest of department. perusal of judgment and record reveals that two question are hovering round the matter in hand for consideration and decision. first is the directive of the learned service tribunal regarding release of salary of the respondent in view of her financial constrains owing expenses in connection with treatment of her ailing baby daughter. the contention of the learned advocate general that release of salary of the respondent at this stage would cause to spoi the inquiry proceedings against the respondent is not tenable because perusal of impugned judgment reveals that he learned service tribunal has not restrained the petitioner from conducting inquiry against the respondent. as such, the department is at liberty to continue with the inquiry proceedings against the respondent for her alleged absence from duty without leave. the second directive of the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal is with regard to constitution of medical board for medical ch eckup of ailing baby daughter of the respondent and upon recommendation of the medical board, decision as to transfer of her services from district astore to district gilgit or otherwise has to be taken by the authorities of education department. it is ob served that the page page of (prov. got. nazia yaqoob order for constitution of medical board does not involve any element of grievance to the petitioner as the learned service tribunal has not bound the medical board to form its opinion recommendations in favour of the respondent. therefore, we see no encumbrance for the department in constitut ing medical board and the department in the light of recommendations of the board shall decide the matter of transfer of services of respondent. without prejudice to above, erusal of case record depicts grave irregularities and discrepancies on the part of authorities of education department in dealing with the case of the respondent. what an irony it is, that the present respondent underwent operation and gave birth to the said ailing baby daughter in the month of may, while her maternity leave was sanctioned on 12th september, w.e.f. .. to .. vide office order no. de(da) -() esstt -. though through this office order, proper materni ty leave was sanctioned in favour of the respondent, but in the attendance sheets attached with the case in hand, she has been shown absent for the period from .. to ... in addition to this, the department contends that the respondent remai ned absent from duty till december, but in the attendance sheet, she has not been marked absent in the month of august, the inaction showed by the department in dealing with the absence case of the respondent indicates that it was the depart ment which allowed the respondent to remain absent from duty, otherwise within short time of absence, she should have been proceeded against strictly in accordance with the law, but the department did not do so which made the absence case of the respondent dubious. page page of (prov. got. nazia yaqoob in view of what has been discussed above, we do not find any illegality or infirmity in the impugned judgment which could call for inference of this court. therefore, leave in the above cpla no. is refused. the impugned .. the gilgit -baltistan service tribunal, gilgit in service appeal no. is maintained. however, the concerned authorities of education department shall continue and conclude inquiry proceedings initiated against the present re spondent without being influenced by judgment of the learned service tribunal. these were the reasons for our short .. which is reproduced below: case heard and record perused. we did not find any illegality or infirmity in the impugne judgment. therefore, for the reasons to be recorded later, leave in the above cpla no. is refused. the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal in service appeal no. stands maintained. chief (yes no