page in the suprem appellate court gilgit -baltistan at gilgit c.p.l.a.no. ud- din, judge. judge. dr. shahid iqbal sheikh sardar ali. muhall ah rehman gardens, habib ullah eoad lahore pakistan presently residing at echo lake driver, odessa, florida usa applicants public at large. provincial government through secretary home, gilgit baltistan, gilgit. respondent leave to appeal under article of gilgit baltistan empowerment and self governance) enabling articles of supreme appellate court gilgit baltian rules against the judgment order of the chief court gilgit baltistan dated 30th may and judgment -- the disrict and sessions whereby the learned chief court dismissed the appeal of the petitioner and maintained the impugned judgment order of district and sessions judge, gilgit passed in c.misc. dated --. by converting this leave to appela into appela and accepting the appeal this baltistan, date -- and judgment order of the district .misc. no. dated and direct the learned district presently i custody of ceena health and welfare center gilgit. page present: advocate general gilgit baltistan. advocate for petitioners. date of hearing: ---. judgment raja jalal ud-din, j------- this petition has been directed ag ainst the judgment 30th may the learned single bench of chief court gilgit baltistan, whereby appeal bearing no. c.f.a. no. against the judgment of the learned district guardian the brief background of the case is that the applicant namely dr. shahid iqbal and his wife zahida shahid iqbal filed an application in the court of district session the district baltistan turned down the request of petitioner in view of the direction laid down in the judgment in a suo motu case no. of the apex court of gilgit baltistan. being aggrieved the petitioner preferred their appeal with the contention that the decision of the chief court gilgit baltistan as well as the district sessions founded and based on the misreading of the directions laid down in the judgment of supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan dated -- the petitioner submitted that out of seven conditions laid down a few of them need interpretation of require elaboration of the true sense and spirit of the requirements. the requirements are causing confusion as the same are not being understood in its perspective. adopting parents are running from pillar to post which is ending up in a wild goose chase. page the state on the other hand represented by the advocate general gilgit baltistan, had been noticed and with his able assistance the matter was seriously thrashed out. he has also frankly opinioned that the directions and requirements laid down in the judgment of supreme appellate court dated --, need to be loo ked into for interpretation as it is being misunderstood. we have gone through the matter and have also scrutinized the record of the case very carefully. in the first instance we fell that the mandatory requirements for adoption of deserted, parentless and abandoned children and their custody has been laid down by the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan which is reproduced as under; a. in absence of specific proof to the contrary a deserted parentless child in custody of welfare center or organizat ion is considered a child of muslim faith and the custody of muslim child cannot be given to a non muslim. b. if the parents of child are known, the consent of parents in writing with full particular and declaration of adaptation by adoptive parents before th district c. if the child is deserted and is in custody of welfare organization as parentless child subject to the police verification and undertaking of the center or organization that child was genuinely in their lawful cus tody which was not obtained in a illegal and unauthorized manner with declaration on oath before the district d. in case of a daptation of child from a welfare center or organization in gilgit baltistan in addition to the declaration on oath, the adoptive parents whether citizen or non citizen, must fulfill the following requirements. (i) the proof of origin and faith of chi ld and the origin of a doptive parents with their full particulars with declaration of adoption supported by an affidavit of facts before the district page (ii) the verification certificate of home secretary gilgit baltistan regarding the dese rtion of child and genuineness of adoptive parents and the welfare organization. (iii) the noc of interior division of government of pakistan to be issued on the basis of verification certificate of home secretary, government of gilgit baltistan and verificat ion of credentials of the adoptive parents by the foreign office through high commissioner consulate of pakistan in the country of adoptive parents. (iv) the interior division government of pakistan before issued of noc will direct registration of child with adara islamabad. (v) the adoptive parents may on the basis of above documents obtain guardianship certificate with permission to take the custody of child out pakistan from district session the said para has confused the guardian baltistan as it has been mis comprehended. the crux and soul of the historic decision of supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan dated -- has laid down the guidelines for the adoptive parents. the said para clearly indicates that when an adopted chi ld has to leave the country then the provision to obtain guardianship certificate from the district the adoptive parents reside within pakistan then the guardianship certificate of the guardian in the instant case the adoptive parents will firstly fulfill all thelaid down criteria as elaborate above and then phase of a guardianship certificate from district session if the parents and child desire to leave the country and to stay abroad. we are of the view that the stated para is constituted of the above stated fact. we have minutely perused the finding of guardian -- and we find that the guardian baltistan dated -- supra the order does not disclosed any specific condition of adoption which is not fulfilled or followed by the page petitioners. the guardian the earned single bench in chamber of chief court gilgit baltistan has also not applied its judicious mind to the matter in hand and has not given any genuine reason for dismissing the petition in appeal and has upheld the finding of the guardian both the learned we feel that a deserted parentless chilled has got the full right to be adopted by genuine adoptive parents who can provide the facility of good up -bringing, good education and fruitful life. any individual who can be in a good financial position to provide the facility to a child should be encouraged instead of reating hurdles and problems or discouragements. the institutions that take care of deserted children will also be relived of the burden which is being shouldered by any individual. the society will also prosper if genuine sound individuals share the burden of providing home, shelter and education etc. to the needy children to keake them honorable members of the society instead of keeping as deserted soul for the whole life. in the instant case, we are of the firm view that adoptive parents petitioner a re a sound parties who can give a better life compare to hat of the institution they are living -in. in this view of the matter this petition is converted into appeal and same is allowed. the petitioner are issued a guardianship certificate with regard to the parentless child adopted by them. the petition is disposed of.