page (prov. govt. safiullah in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit chief (against the .. the gilgit -baltistan chief court in writ petition no. govt. of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary others .. petitioner safiullah respondent for the petitioner the advocate general, gb date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah c.j:- this is a civil leave to the judgment the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, gilgit on .. in civil revision no. whereby the judgment decrees the learned 1st appellate court was maintained. brief facts of the case are that the present respondent filed a suit for declaration and perpetual injunction against the present petitioner before the learned sr. civil judge, gilgit to the effect that the present respondent page (prov. govt. safiullah was appointed as plant operator bs on 12th august, in the norway workshop at gilgit. the present respondent claimed to have performed his duties and received salary for two months. it is the claim of the respondent before the learned courts below that from the month of october, the department stopped paying him salary while he continued to perform his duties till institution of suit before the court of learned sr. civil judge, gilgit. the learned sr. civil judge, gilgit after framing as many as issues and on the basis of eviden ce and statements of witnesses decreed the suit in favour of the present respondent. the petitioner being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the judgment decree the learned sr. civil judge, gilgit filed civil first appeal no. before the learned additional district judge, gilgit. the learned additional district judge, gilgit after hearing the parties dismissed the aforementioned civil first appeal. the present petitioner felt aggrieved with the judgment of the learned additional district judge, gilgit filed civil revision no. before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, gilgit, which too met the same ate, hence this civil leave to appeal before this court. the instant civil leave to appeal came up for preliminary hearing before this court on ... after hearing the matter at some length, we through our short order of even date, dismissed the same. the case in hand involves only three questions, first whether the present respondent was appointed as plant operator bs in norway workshop, gilgit; secondly whether his service book was prepared in the page (prov. govt. safiullah office of the concerned department; and thirdly whether he got salaries for the two months and thereafter continued to perform as such till institution of the suit before the learned sr. civil judge, gilgit. all the above questions have been proved before the courts of the learned sr. civil judge, gilgit and the additional district judge, gilgit. the decisive factor of the case is the statements of employees representatives of the present petitioner before the learned courts below whereby the above questions have been proved in affirmative. in addition to the above, the verification list of employees of that department also carries name of the respondent at serial no. even if it is assumed that the employees of the concerned department had given false statements before the courts below confirming appointment of the respondent and performance of duties by him, the department ought to have taken legal action against them, but neither record of the case speaks of it nor the learned advocate general gb could reply to this question. be that as it may, he matter involves factual controversies which have been resolved before the three learned courts below through their concurrent findings. when there are concurrent findings of the courts below as to the facts of a matter, the apex courts of pakistan keep their hands off from interfering with the factual position of the matter s. apart from the factual position discussed hereinabove, it would be worthwhile to mention here the legal as well as islamic parameters of the matter in hand. salary against the duty performed by an employee is his absolute legal right which can neither be denied nor can the employee be page (prov. govt. safiullah put to unnecessary litigations to ge his legal right and further compel him to sustain mental agony and financial loss for no fault of his, that too when the duty rendered by the employee has duly been proved. duty work obtained from an employee without salary is against the islamic injunctions which have envisaged payment of salary wages before sweat is dried. there are various ah adis in this regard. abdullah ibn umar reported: the messenger of allah, peace and blessings be upon him, said, pay the worker his wages before his sweat has dried. (source: sunan ibn a jah mishqat masabih page volume no. ). furthermore, performance of duty without salary wages amounts to forced labour which is forbidden in islam and in the constitution of pakistan as well. under the law, it is obligatory upon the public functionaries to redress grievances of general public including their subordinate employees in accordance with the law. in this regard, the legislature has insert ed in the general clauses acts laying down respons ibilities of the public functionaries. the said section is reproduced herein below: 24a. exercise of power under enactments. (). where by or under any enactment, a power to make any order to give any direction is conferred on any authority, office or person such power shall be exercised reasonably, fairly, justly and for the advancement of the purpose of the enactment perusal of the contents of the above section of the general clauses acts makes it abundantly clear that public functionaries are duty bound to decide applications grievances of citizen without fear, favour, nepotism, with reasons, within reasonable time a nd without discrimination. the page (prov. govt. safiullah (at page para ). the exercise of discretionary power must be rational and have a nexus with the objectives of the underlying legisl ature, when it confers a wide ranging power it must be deemed to have assumed that the power will be, firstly, exercised in good faith, secondly, for the advancement of the object of the legislation, and thirdly in a reasonable manner. of the eneral clauses act, reiterates the principle that statutory powers is to be exercised reasonably, fairly, justly and for the advancement of the purposes of the enactment and further clarifies that executive authority must give reasons for its decis ions. any action by any executive authority which is violative of these principles is liable to be struck down arguments advanced by the learned advocate general gb have been considered, record of the case perused and he impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, gilgit has also been gone through. we could not find any infirmity or illegality in the judgment the learned chief court, gb. foregoing in view, the instant civil leave to appeal being devoid of merit and legal force is hereby dismissed and the leave is refused. as a result whereof, the concurrent judgments decrees the learned courts below are maintained. the above were the reasons for our short dated .. announced .. chief