page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. cpla no. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. mst. haseena widow of muhammad abbas minapin tehsil sikandarabad district hunza agar petitioner. muhammad shafa bakhtawar shah minapin tehsil sikandarabad district hunza nagar. respondents. leave to appeal into the impugned .. the gilgit baltistan chief court gilgit whereby the learned chief court accepted the appeal of the respondent. for setting aside the same and the respondent may kindly be restrained to remove the ward arman abbas from the custody of petitioner. present: advocate for the petitioner. advocate for the respondent. date of hearing: --. judgement. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj the learned counsel for the pet itioner submits that mst. haseena was married with one muhammad ab bas muhammad shafa. her husband was serving in pakistan army who died in april out of this wedlock, a male child, arman abbas born on .., he is only years and months ld at present. soon after the death of the petitioner husband, the father of the minor namely page arman abbas his grand father i.e. muhammad shafa took the infant into his custody when he was only months old, against the will of his mother petitioner of he case in hand. consequently, the petitioner filed a petition under section of guardian and ward act in the court of the guard ian two others i.e. munawar bakhtawar shah and aqleen muhammad sh afa from the laps of her mother petitioner. he further submits that upon hearing the learned guardian however, the respondent no., and were allowed to visit the child at the house of his mother on each sunday but they were not allowed to take the infant with them. accordingly civil misc. no. was disposed of with the above directions. whereafter, the respo ndent filed civil misc. no. under section of guardian ward act for grant of the custody of the infant minor namely arman abass late mu hammad abass. the petitioner mother in pursuance of the notice of the court joined the proceedings and finally the case was heard on ... since, arman abass late muhammad abass has crossed the age of two years, consequently, the respondent was entitled to take the minor into their care and custody under sh ia muslim page personal laws. he further argued that petitioner mother of the infant even did not allow the grandparents of the child to meet with him. he further submitted that the mother of the chi ld has also failed him to get vaccinated timely. the learned counsel for the respondent stated before the learned guardian the son of predeceased son is not entitled to get inheritance yet he intends to give share in inheritance to the minor. he submits that the welfare of the minor lies with the respondent grandfather, who is financially sound and can arrange good education and better brought up in his care and custody. the learned counsel for th petitioner on the other hand submits that the respondent grandfather of the child after the death of her husband forcibly taken into his custody of the minor, when he was only months old without the consent and will of the petitioner real moth er. he learned counsel further submits that the petitioner is still unmarried and taking good care of minor as she is receiving handsome amount in shape of pension of her lat husband, which is enough to maintain both, the mother and infant minor. he further ubmits that the welfare of the minor lies with the petitioner mother and not with the grandfather. in support of the claim of the petitioner reliance is made on the cases of walayat ali mst. khalid bibi clc), mst. zubaid bibi mst. ra bia nlr civil mst. fozia begum amin saddruddin jamal gonji page clc page syed ali mehdi additional district after hearing of the learned counsel for the appellant the learned guardian however, the mother was directed to produce the minor for his meeting with the grandparents and its family at the place of anyone of the common relativ es of the parties namely qasim and muhammad ali on every sunday and the notables will ensure that the order of the learned guardian court is complied with in its letter and spirit s. the respondent grandfather of the minor being aggrieved by and dissa tisfied with the .. the learned guardian district judge, district hunza nagar, filed civil first appeal no. in the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan gilgit, which was heard on .. and upon hearing the appea of the respondent no. was accepted. the order of the impugned judgment the learned district .. was set aside with the directions that the learned guardian district however, the petitioner was allowed to visit the minor once in a week if so she wishes. furthermore, the parties were directed to appear before the learned guardian .. for further directions. page the present petitioner eing aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the .. the learned division bench chief court gilgit -baltistan in cfa. no. filed the instant leave to appeal and this court vide .. issued noti ces to the respondents, meanwhile, the minor infant shall remain in the custody of her mother petitioner of the case in hand. the learned counsel for the petitioner further contends that the order the learned chief court gilgit baltistan i not sustainable and the same is liable to set -aside as the welfare of the minor infant (arman abass is a paramount consideration and his welfare is attached with his mother being his natural guardian. he further contends that after the death of the fat her of the minor infant husband of the petitioner the maternal love, affection and care is with the mother and which cannot be equated with any other relation than mother and removal of the child from his mother lap would tantamount to the hei ght of cru elty. he fu rther states that the welfare of the child is the only paramount consideration while deciding custody matters. in present case the welfare of child lies with the mother not with grandfather or grandmother. on the other hand, the learned couns el for the respondent submitted that it is not a dispute that the parties of the case belong to shia sect. he law of the said sect is relevant which support the plea of the respondent, for care and custody of the page child with his grandfather and grandmot her as the child is above years old. the respondent grandfather can better take care of the child as compared to the petitioner. the respondent grandfather not only can better take care of the minor but also shall arrange good facilities for his educati on in a renowned schools and college for his bright future. he further contended that the learned chief court has rightly he ld that guardian th guardian therefore, the said judgment has accurately been set aside by the learned chief court. the guardian he further submits that the welfare of the child can only be determined after recording of evidence. as such the appeal of the grandfather was accepted on well founded grounds by the learned chief court and interference in the impugned judgment is not warranted. he relied in his support of the cases of mst. ghullam sakina nasim haider clc lahore, asma district mst. ayesha bibi safd ar ali shah and other clc mst. bisma safdar additional district we heard both the learned counsels for the respective parties perused the material available in the case file page and have gone through the case laws. we feel that he custody of the infant minor may not be allowed blindly and it must be decided objectively. the welfare of the minor was always a paramount consideration while determining the custody of the minor. the mother love and affection for her child cannot be matched compared equated with any others as the laps of mother would have god own cradle for a child. while deciding the custody of the child is extremely a conscious one and keeping in view, the age of the minor, environment and circumstances and giving paramount consideration to the welfare of the child. the case laws referred by the learned counsel for the petitioner support the claim of the mother petitioner and the case laws referred by the counsel for the respondent are distinguishable. in our considered opinion the welfare of the child lies with the mother petitioner as mother laps is the first place of education where the infant minor learns and knows his mother even otherwise, the affiliation of the child with the mother is more than that of respondent i. e. grandfather and grandmother. in view of the above discussion, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. the impugned judgment .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan in cfa. no. is set aside and the judgment .. in civil miscellaneous no. the learned guardian however, the respondent and his other family members are allowed to meet with the mino (arman abba s) on every alternate sunday (after days) at the residence of the petitioner causing no inconvenience to the petitioner mother. the appeal is allowed. announced on: ... chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?