page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. chief judge. judge. cpla. no sheikh behlol petitioner. ali ghulam others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. date of hearing: ... order. this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court wherein the said civil revision filed by the petitioner was accepted and the case was remanded back to the learned additional district -nagar for re -writing the judgment after hearing the parties, hence, this leave to appeal. the lea rned counsel for the petitioner submits that the respondent field civil suit no. in the learned civil court 1st class nagar in counter blast to the suit no. filed by the petitioner. upon hearing the same was dismissed vide judgm ent dated ... the respondent petitioner being aggrieved filed civil first appeal no. respectively before the learned court of district -nagar which upon hearing were disposed off. the learned first appellate court partially allowed the appeal of the respondent whereas the petitioner was not declared entitled for recovery of rs. (rupees eighty thousand only) from the respondents. he also submits that the page petitioner being aggrieved filed civil revision no. before the learned chief court which was allowed and the case was remanded back to the learned additional district nagar whereas the civil revision no. filed by the respondent was dismissed being hopelessly time barred vide ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the civil revision of the respondent was dismissed by he learned chief court but the respondent were directed to join the proceeding before the first appellate court which is not tenable in law. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the record of the case file and gone hrough the impugned order .. in civil revision no. as well as the .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegal ity infirmity in the impugned judgment order. in view of the above, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. the leave is refused accordingly. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?