page in the supreme apellate court gilgit -baltistan c.p.l.a no. -ud-din judge. hussain akbar nadir ali account officer bps g.b.l.a and others. petitioner speaker gbla gilgit and others respondent leave to appeal judgment the gilgit -baltistan chief court gilgit. present: mr.amjad hussain advocate alongwith shar if ahmed advocate on behalf of petitioners. mr.asadullah khan, advocate general gilgit -baltistan for respondent. mr.jamil ahmed deputy speaker gbla, gilgit respondent no. of the petition. haji jamal khan aor. page date of hearing:- -- judgment:- mr., --, the learned division bench of the gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereb the learned division bench has dismissed the writ petition no. ,for want of jurisdiction. impugned judgment perused, it reveals that the learned division bench of the chief court has inferred a ratio decidendi from cited judgment dr. ghul am ali etc federal minister for ka na division islamabad etc. in writ petition no. and from other judgments indicated in, that, service matters pertaining to promotion appointments against the post of bps and upward could not be challenged in general courts including the we after going through, the above cited case law coupled with the other judgments of supreme court of pakistan and -baltistan on the subje ct, have reached into the conclusion that the learned division bench has wrongly, inferred the above judicial dictum from the judgments. the ratio decidendi in all the above cases is that, august supreme court of pakistan and the learned chief court ha ve ousted the page jurisdiction of general courts including the writ jurisdiction to entertain the service maters agitated by the employees who have been appointed by the ka na division either on the recommendations of the federal public service commission or otherwise and also the matters of deputionist employees in the gilgit -baltistan holding the jurisdiction of the federal service tribunal islamabad to entertain their cases. the remaining employees appointed by the competent authorities in gilgit -balti stan have been given benefit of non -availability of the special forum (as no service tribunal was established by the gilgit -baltistan government) and general courts were hold to have jurisdiction to entertain suits and writ jurisdiction was also extended to such service matters. so the criteria was not the grade but was the method of appointment since at present, government of gilgit -baltistan has established the service tribunal of its own as such the above legal discussion remains as academic and has no legal effect except the writ petition is sent to the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan to take it as pending before and do the needful under the relevant provisions of the gilgit -baltistan service tribunal act with these observations, th instant petition is disposed of accordingly.