page page of (syed hamid hussain others prov. govt in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit chief (against the .., the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal in service appeals no. syed hamid hussain ex foot constable district police, gilgit, police department gilgit -baltistan muhamm ad shah ex foot constable district police gilgit ali shah ex foot constable district police gilgit kifayat hussain ex foot constable district police gilgit petitioner(s) govt. of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gilgit baltistan inspector general of police (igp) gilgit -baltistan deputy inspector general (dig) police headquarter gilgit baltistan senior superintendent of police gilgit secretary service gilgit -baltistan at gilgit respondent (s) present: for the petitioner (s): amjad hussain sr. advocate muhammad saleem khan advocate for the respondent (s): the advocate general gb date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge:-the instant civil leave to appeal arises out of a consolidated .. the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal in service appeals no. whereby the service appeals filed by the page page of (syed hamid hussain others prov. govt present petitioner were dismissed by the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal holding them to be meritless. brief facts giving rise to institution to the instant civil leave to appeal are that the present petitioner were appointed as foot constables (b-) in gb police epartment on different dates. the precise history of the petitioner is: (i). the petitioner no. syed hamid hussain was appointed as foot constable on .. his services were terminated on .. under rule of police rules. upon submission of representation appeal, he was reinstated into service on ... subsequently, the reinstatement order was cancelled recalled on ... (ii). the petitioner no. muhammad shah was appointed as foot constable on ... his services were terminated on .. under rule of police rules. upon submission of representation appeal, he was reinstated in service on .. subsequently, the reinstatement order was cancelled recalled on ... (iii). the pet itioner no. ali shah was appointed as foot constable on ... his services were terminated on .. under rule of police rules. upon submission of representation appeal, he was reinstated in service on ... subsequently, the rein statement order was cancelled recalled on ... (iv). the petitioner no. kifayat hussain was appointed as foot constable on .. this date is mentioned in memo of appeal and judgment of gilgit -baltistan service tribunal, however no office order is available on record). his services were terminated on .. under rule of page page of (syed hamid hussain others prov. govt police rules. upon submission of representation appeal, he was reinstated in service on ... subsequently, the reinstatement order was cancelled recalled on ... against withdrawal of reinstatement orders, the petitioner filed departmental appeal which remain ed unattended. having been dissatisfied by the departmental authorities, the etitioners resorted to legal remedy through the courts of law by way of institution of service appeals before the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. the learned service tribunal gbst dismissed their service appeals holding them to be meritless. having felt aggrieved and dissatisfied with th decision of the learned gb service tribunal, the petitioner has now assailed the consolidated judgment of learned gbst before this court through the cpla in hand. the learned counsel for the petitioner argued that when a govt. employee is alleged to have committed misconduct, there is settled law principal of going through the due process of law before resorting to take any action detrimental to the interest of concerned employees. he maintained that before imposing penalty upon any employee, under the law, government is bound to issue show cause notice, initiation of inquiry against the employees against whom action is proposed to be taken followed by providing a chance of defense. the counsel for the petitioner next argued that the respondent instead of following the due process of law and procedure prescribed for dealing with such cases, simply terminated services of the petitioner for no fault on the ir part which amounted to gross violation of law and natural justice. he next contended that the respondent in the second round of termination of services of page page of (syed hamid hussain others prov. govt petitioner too resorted to misuse their authority and again without issuing any show cause notice, conducting any inquiry and affording an opportunity of defense wi thdrew the orders of reinstatement which was a commission of violation of settled laws principles of natural justice. the learned counsel for the petitioner next argued that it was against the principle of natural services of the petitioner spreading to years have been terminated straightaway. at the conclusion of his arguments, the learned counsel for the petitioner prayed that the impugned consolidated judgment of learned gbst, being against the facts, grounds and law may be set aside. conversely, the learned advocate general gilgit baltistan defended the impugned judgment by opposing the contentions raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner and argued that the petitioner after their initial appointments, failed to prove themselves efficient, which resulted in their removal from service under police rule. he next contende that petitioner were removed in the year and got reinstatement orders in the years respectively after span of a long period which was got fraudulently illegally as there was no record to show that the reinstatement order were issued by the competent authority or even with approval of the competent authority. he averred that the learned gb service tribunal thoroughly thrash ed out all legal and factual aspects of service appeals before it and rightly and in accordance with aw dismissed service appeals of the petitioner which is not warranted for interference by this court and prayed for upholding the same. page page of (syed hamid hussain others prov. govt we have given our due consideration to the arguments advanced from both the sides and have also gone through the record of the case as well as the impugned judgment. there is no dispute with regard to termination of services of the petitioner during probationary period under rule of gilgit -baltistan police rules holding them to be inefficient. however, there is no record in black and white on file neither before the learned service tribunal nor before this court which could show the determining factors of inefficiency of the petitioners. if the police rules do not provide any written instrument which could gauge the performance of a police probationer and bring it to the notice of the higher authorities in writing for record, then, unfortunately rule of the police rule would be a dead weapon in the hands of concerned superintendent of police to prey any probationer police personnel on the basis of his liking or disliking. it is astonishing to note that the reasons given for withdrawal of reinstatement orders of the present petitioner in the para -wise comments submitted by the present respondent as well as the arguments of the learned law officer before the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal were that, first the reinstatement orders were got by the present petitioner fraudulently misrepresentation; secondly, the reins tatement orders were withdrawn cancelled merely because other sacked police personnel had also starte approaching the police department for reinstatement of their services, particularly with reference to the reinstatement orders of present respondents; and thirdly the reinstatement orders were issued by the incompetent authorities. as far as page page of (syed hamid hussain others prov. govt obtaining th reinstatement orders by the present petitioner fraudulently misrepresentation is concerned, being a disciplined force, the police department is expected by government as well as public at large to be vigilant not only with regard to the affairs of gener al public but also with regard to the internal affairs of police department itself. in order to deal wi th matters of police personnel staff, a vast establishment department exists within police department which is aided by the special branches of police de partment. it is ironic to observe that how a vast establishment branch having vigilance support of police special branches, failed to notice that some terminated police personnel succeeded to obtain reinstatement orders fraudulently. hence this plea is neither logical nor tenable; rather it shows inefficiency of higher police authorities that such a purported blatant commission of fraud misrepresentation esca ped from their eyes. the second contention for cancellation withdrawal of reinstatement orders of the present petitioner on the ground of presenting the reinstatement orders by the other sacked police personnel as precedents for their reinstatement is also not acceptable because the act of approaching of other sacked police perso nnel for reinstatement could not be made base for simple withdrawal cancellation of reinstatement orders, whereas cases for reinstatement brought by other sacked police personnel could have been dealt with in accordance with the law rules. as far as the co ntention plea of police department gilgit -baltistan regarding issuance of reinstatement orders by incompetent authorities is concerned, it is made clear that if it was known that the reinstatement orders were issued by authorities who were not competent to do so or the said orders were issued without obtaining approval from the competent authority, then page page of (syed hamid hussain others prov. govt officers who were involved in such practice were required to be dealt with strictly in accordance with law and would have punish ed them instead of pu nishing the present petitioners. however, there is nothing on the record to show that any inquiry action followed by any penalty under the law was ever conducted against those officers who were involved in issuance of reinstatement orders without authority. non- initiation of action against the responsible officers could be termed that in order to save the necks of those officers; authorities of police department straightaway punished the present petitioner without adherence to the principle of natural the record shows that after reinstatement into service, the petitioner syed hamid hussain served the police department for years; muhammad shah served for years mont hs; ali shah served around for and half years; and kifayat hussain served for years months. even i it is admitted that it was the dire necessity of police departm ent to withdraw cancel the reinstatement orders of the present petitioners, then in view of their long services rendered by the present petitioner after reinstatement, before taking such drastic action of straightaway cancellation of reinstatement orders thereby leaving the petitioner and their families to face starvation, due process of law should have been adopted by the department by providing opportunity of personal hearing for defending their position. however, the department for the reasons best known to it, failed to do so. an inquiry appears to have been conducted on receipt of applications by other sacked police personnel behind the back of the present petitioner and on the basis of findings recommendations of that committee, reinstatement orders of the present petitioner were withdrawn. if it was the purpose of the page page of (syed hamid hussain others prov. govt inquiry to withdraw the reinstatement orders of the present petitioners, the petitioner should have been invited to participate in the inquiry proceedings. thereafter, the police department was also bound under the law and principle of natural with a view to strengthen our views, we would like to lend support from a judgment title hazara (hill tract) improvement trust mst. qaisra elahi scmr wherein the the principle of natural shahzad farooq malik scmr the no adverse action could be taken against employee without observing principles of natural justice in view of circumstances prevailing with the case in hand as well as taking into consideration the observations of the it is held that the police department, gilgit -baltistan has failed to adhere to the due process of law before cancellation withdrawal of reinstatement orders of the present petitioners. this act and omission on the part of police department has led to vitiate inquiry proceedings and the recommendations thereof which culminated into cancellation withdrawal of reinstatement orders is also held page page of (syed hamid hussain others prov. govt to be against the principle of natural it has been argued by the learned law officer and also averred in the parawise comments submitted by the present respondent before the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal that authority who has power of passing an order is also empowered under section of the general clauses act to withdraw, rescind, amend or vary the same order. this assertion has also been endorsed by the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal in its impugned judgment. there is no cavil to legal proposition under section of the general clauses act, however, action under the ibid section can be taken subject to certain limitations. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal, while dilating upon the matter before it, has also misinterpreted mi sconstrued section of the general clauses act. by interpreting section the the authority that has the power to make an order has also the power to undo it. but this is subject to the exception that where the order has taken legal effect, and in pursuance thereof certain rights have been created in favour of any individual, such a order cannot be withdrawn or rescinded to the detriment of those rights. the esult of the above discussions observations is that the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal has failed to thrash out take into consideration the factual and legal position of service appeals before it. consequently, the above cpla under objection no. is converted into an appeal and the same is allowed. the impugned page page of (syed hamid hussain others prov. govt consolidated .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal in service appeal no. is set aside. the present respondent are directed to reinstate services of the present petitioner from the date of last termination of their service i.e. .. (date of withdrawal of reinstatement orders). however, the period from .. till the date of announcement of judgment by this court i.e. .. shall be treated as leave without pay. these were the reasons of our short .., which is reproduced herein below: case heard and record perused. we have also gone through the impugned judgment. for the reasons to be recorded later, we convert this cpla into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal, gilgit in service appeals no. is set aside chief (yes no)