page (prov. govt. attaullah in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit chief (against the .. the gilgit -baltistan service tribunal in service appeal no. provincial government through chief secretary secretary education gilgit -baltistan director education gilgit -baltistan deputy director education district skardu district accounts officer skardu. petitione rs attaullah aman ullah satellite town tehsil district skardu. .. respondent present: for the petitioners: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: this judgment shall dispose of the instant petition directed against .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal, gilgit in service appeal no. filed by the respondent which was accepted. brief facts gathered from the record of case are that i pursuance of an advertisement of education department skardu published in daily k2 on .., the respondent applied and got selected against the post of lab assistant (bps -) and joined his duties as such w.e.f. ... the respondent claimed to have not been paid salary from the date of joining of service till institution of service appeal before the learned gb service tribunal. prior to institution of service appeal, the respondent submitted several representations to the concerned authorities of education department, gb, but remained unsuccessful. the learned service tribunal, after discussing all material facts and grounds, accepted the service appeal page (prov. govt. attaullah and directed the petitioner release salary of the respondent from the date of joining and the employment of the respondent as lab assistant (bps was also ordered to be protected. the petitioner have now assailed the impugned judgment before this court by way of the present civil leave to appeal. the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan contended that .. the learned service tribunal was against the facts and grounds because the respondent was appointed as lab assistant without fulfilling the codal formalities i.e. test interview. the learned ag, gb next contended that the respondent claimed appointments against a non-existent post i.e. that no post of lab assistant bs existed in the middle school gamba. he next argued that the respondent got the appointment order on the basis of a fake and forged document; as such the appointment order was itself void ab-initio. he maintained that the learned servi ce tribunal did not advert to this crucial factual point as how a person could be appointed on a post which did not exist at all. the learned ag, gilgit -baltistan further argued that the learned service tribunal did not consider the legal point that the service appeal befo re it was barred by time and that the learned service tribunal went beyond its jurisdiction. case heard. record as well as impugned judgment perused. the plea of the learned advocate general regarding appointment of the respon dent without adherence to the prescribed method of appointment is not tenable. we are unable to understand that hether the appointment order was forcibly got by the petitioner? it is made clear that it was the concerned authority of education department, skardu who issued appointment order, accepted his joining report and started taking duty from the respondent. illegality or discrepancies committed by the authorities of education department could not be attributed to the respondent. even if the appointment order is assumed to be got under illegal manner, again a question arises as to why the petitioner accepted joining report and started taking duty from a person who was alleged to have got an illegal appointment order? as far as ple a regarding non -availability of the post of page (prov. govt. attaullah lab assistant is concerned, it is clarified for correction of record of education department, skardu that it was not the respondent who advertised the post in the newspaper; rather it was the education department, skardu who advertised the post thereby calling applications for appointment to the said post. if the post of lab assistant did not exist with the department, then what were the reasons for placing the advertisement. publication of this advertisement in the newspaper was neither disputed before the service tribunal nor before this court. if for the sake of arguments, the post was mistakenly advertised and the appointment was made on the basis of this mistaken advertisement, then the appointing authorit should have taken necessary steps for issuing corrigendum and withdrawal of the appointment order straightaway. but the file does not contain any document to prove that such steps were taken by education department, skardu. contrarily, the authorities of education department skardu accepted his joining and started taking duty from the respondent from the year till now. we found a number of certificates issued by the concerned school admi nistration of skardu which showed that the respondent has been satisfactorily perform ing his duties, but without pay, such certificates have never been disputed nor objected to by the education department neither before the learned service tribunal nor before this court. in addition to the ab ove, there is nothing available on record to show that the respondent had done anything unlawful to secure his appointment against the said post. if the department had any reason to believe that the respondent had done anything unlawful and illegal ly secured the appointment order, there must be a final order after due process of inquiry. in absence of adopting proper procedure under the law, stoppage of salary of an employee who rendered his duty is otally unjustified and unlawful and against the inj unctions of islam inasmuch as the same fall within the ambit of forced labour. in similar issue, the page (prov. govt. attaullah in our considered opinion their salaries cannot be withheld on the ground that their appointment was illegal being made in violation of the relevant recruitment rules and in fact action should have been initiated against those who are sitting at the helm of affairs for such irregularities. the respondent cannot be held respo nsible in any manner whatsoever in addition to the above, in a recent judgment in the case titled govt. of gilgit -baltistan others niaz ali (cpla no. ), this court has also decided that non-payment of salary against the work obtained is illegal. for ease of reference, the relevant paragraph from the said judgment is reproduced below: duty work obtained from an employee without salary is against the islamic injunctions which have envisaged payment of salary wages before sweat is dried. there are various hadis in this regard. abdullah ibn umar reported: the messenger of allah (ﷺ), said, pay the worker his wages before his sweat has dried. (source: sunan ibn a jah mishqat masabih page volume no. ). furthermore, performance of duty without salary wages amounts to forced labour which is forbidden in islam and in the constitution of pakistan as well in sequel to the above discussion, we did not find any illegality, irregularity or infirmity in the impugned .. the learned service tribunal in service appeal therefore, leave in the above cpla no. is refused. the petitioner are directed to comply with the impugned judgment. the above were the reasons for our short .. which is reproduced below: the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan has been heard at length. for the reasons to be recorded later, the above cpla no. is dismissed chief (yes no