page in the supreme appellalte court gilgit -baltistan gilgit. cpla no. mr.-ud-din acting chief judge. mr.. fatima bi wife of hussain, muhammad ismail, fida muhammad, and ghulam nabi sons of hussain residents of mohallah khansar, tehsil khaplu bala distrtict ghanche petitioner abdur rehim, mussa sons of ali naseeb residents of mohallah khansar tehsil khaplu bala, distrtict ghanche. respondents. leave to appeal under article of gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, against the judgment decree dated --, the learned single judgment of chief court gilgit -baltistan, in civil revision no. wherein the dism issed petition of petitioner defendant and upheld the judgment decree of the ist appellate court dated -- wherein the ist appellate court had accepted the appeal of the respondent in appeal no. and dismissed the partial appeal of the petitioner appell ants in appeal no. against the partial judgment decree of the trial court dated --. for setting aside the impugned judgment decree the learned single judgment gilgit -baltistan chief court dated --, as well as the judgment decree of 1st appellate court dated -- and judgment of the trial court dated -- to the extent of cancellat ion of mutation nos. and to meet the ends of justice. present: malik shafqat wali sr. advocate on behalf of the present. date of hearing: --: page judgment: this leave to appeal impugns not only the judgment decree dated -- a learned single bench of the hon,ble chief court gilgit -baltistan, but also impugns the decree dated -- the learned ist appellate court and partially the decree dated --, the learned trial court concerned. the brief facts gave birth to the instant petition are as such that, one ibrahim residents of district khaplu died issueless leaving behind the suit property. since the man died issueless as such his two sisters mst.fatima bi and mst.skina remained legal heirs behind him. mst. skaina leaving in her husband house while r.ibrahim and mst. fatima bi were residing together. hence the hererditment of the fatima. mst. skaina also died after death of her brother ibrahim and her legal heirs filed suit no. before, the court of learned civil ju dge khaplu against the present petitioners, claiming their legal share out of the hereditament of the present petitioner submitted their written statement whereby they denied any legal right of the plaintiff with the specific contention of he gift made by the late ibrahim in favour of the defendant no. in respect of his legacy and submitted the document ex.d with their written statement. page the learned civil the plaintiff are entitled to be decreed the suit partially to the extent of cancellation of some mutations and de -suited the plaintiff in regard to their prayer declaration cum possession of the disputed land as they claimed. the plaintiff as we ll as the defendant both being dissatisfied with the findings of the learned trial court, filed appeals against before the court of learned additional district the learned district the present petitioner filed a revision petition against the decree before the learned chief court g.b. the revision petition was also dismissed on merits by a learned sin gle -baltistan. hence this petition before this court. we heard the learned counsel for the petitioners.the learned counsel before us also re -iterated the same plea of gift in favour of the petitioner no. by the ate ibrahim and referred the document ex.-d- and the statements of the marginal witnesses to the document and emphasized to be proven. we minutely have gone through the document ex.d -. it is a photo state copy of a document titled ___________ and at tested by the aor for the petitioner. the document being a photo state copy of the original is not admissible under qanoon -e-shahdat. the page learned trial .d and has declared the same to be admissible in evidence and has relied u pon without enquiry about the original of it which have neither been placed in the file of the case nor the record reveals that, the original document was presented before the trial court and was returned to the plaintiff after perusal. the document, ev en if the original paper was attached with the file, could not be relied upon, as it was un registered or was written at least on a stamp paper. the document ought most having status of a will which is meant to be operative after the death of the executor of the document. the executor was muslim and under islamic law he was bound to execute a will in respect of of his estate but in violation of islamic law he had executed the will in respect of entire property he owned as such the document is oid under islamic law. the nutshell of the above discussion is that the counsel for the petitioner has failed to persuade us to grant the leave to appeal, hence the petition is refused to convert it into appeal and dismissed. the impugned decree the learned single no orders as to cost. announced -- acting chief