page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan c.p.l.a. no. judge. judge. yawar hussain haji fida huss ain, amphary tehsil district gilgit petitioner anwar ali khan haji safar khan, kha zana road tehsil and district gilgit respondent grant of leave to the impugned judgment decree dated --, chief court gilgit -baltistan. present: date of hearing: --. order:- ex -parte decree dated -- was civil petitioner defendant filed appeal before an additional district the learned add itional district it was therefore dismissed by him, thereafter, the petitioner went in revision before the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan, but in vain. respondent plaintiff filed a suit for recovery of amount of rs., along -with interest with effect from date of filing of the suit up to the final disposal. the suit proceeded, issues were framed. respondent plaintiff adduced evidence in proof of his claim, while the case was adjourned or evidence of page defendant petitioner but the defendant etitioner failed to produce witnesses, as such the defence was struck of by the trial court on -- and the suit was fixed for final arguments. the present petitioner defendant was proceeded ex parte on the same day as he was absent from the court and in the result, ex- parte decree was passed against him on --. feeling aggrieved by the decree, appellant, filed an application under order ix rule c.p.c. on -- which was seriously contested on facts as well as on the question of limitation. the learned single bench of the chief court in the impugned order noticed that the application for setting aside the decree required to be filed within days of the decree, was actual ly filed after the passage of more then four months and was thus hit by the provisions of article of the ist schedule to the lim itation act. on facts as well the learned single benc of chief court found no merit in the revision petition of the petitio ner appellant and dismissed the same. at the preliminary hearing the learned counsel -parte decree was made within time prescribed by article of the ist schedul to the limitation act and that the circumstances of the case did not attract article of the said schedule to the limitation act. while article prescribes a period of days for an application for setting aside the ex -parte decree from the date the decree, where the summons were not duly served when applicant has knowledge of the decree, article prescribes a period of years in an application for which no period of limitation is provide for else where in the ist schedule to the limitation act or by section of the code of cpc when the right to apply accrues. in the facts of the present case as observed earlier applicant defendant were duly served with the summons and they had taken a definite stand in the defence of the suit. herefore in our view article of limitation act is page attracted and not article as misunderstood by the learned counsel. application for setting aside of the ex -parte decree having been moved after passage of delay of months. petitioner defendant se eking condonation of delay was required to xplain delay of each day beyond period of limitation. general and vague statement in support of condonation of delay would not be sufficient. grounds advanced by counsel for setting aside ex -pare decree are neith er bonafide nor tenable at the law. the petitioner wa well aware of the legal issue. the ounsel for petitioner as also in attendance when the ex -parte decree had been passed, despite of knowledge and attendance of the counsel for petitioner defenda nt they filed an application under order rule c.p.c. along -with application under section of the limitation act for condonation of months delay after laps of prescribed limitation provided by the law of imitation. resultantly the learned lower co urts have not considered both the plea raised by the petitioner defendant, application under section of limitation act rejected by the learned civil -parte decree passed in favor of plaintiff respondent. the impugned ex -parte decree the learned trial court though seems to be very short and sketchy and the learned trial judg has not bothered to discuss the evidence adduced by the present respondent which ought to have been done so, as even he has power to dismis the suit after perusal of the record of the case. he should have reached to the conclusion that the suit was false and having no support from the record. despite the deficiency in the order of learn ed civil -initio, as the day on which the impugned ex -parte decree passed was date of hearing as from perusal of the order sheet it appears that the case was fixed for final arguments. the higher judiciary as well as th august supreme court of pakistan are at consonance with each other on the point that the date fixed for arguments comes withi the definition of the date of page hearing. hence the legal resort available to the petitioner to make set aside the decree was un der order rule c.p.c. which he availed but after lapse of limitation. as order rule c.p.c. is governed under article of the limitation act which clearly prescribed days of limitation for filing of application under order rule c.p.c. in the circumstances discussed above, we are fully in agreement with the judgment learned single bench of the chief court dated --, and find no merit in the leave to appeal and accordingly dismiss the same. leave to appeal refused. announced. --