page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan c.p.l.a.no. judge. judge. ghulam qadir ghulam sarwar khan ceck tibi wala post office tipu sultan pur tehsil melsi dist rict wihari. petitioner ghulam abbas mehdi hassan house no. govt. colony x-block tehsil district okara permanent address house no. block no. near masjid faroqia johanian. motor registration authority through secretary (eto) ransport authority northern areas. respondent application for grant of leave to the judgment -- the whereby the writ petition of the respondent no. has been accepted and the order the respondent no. dated -- is set aside and the duplicate reg istration certificate ownership of the respondent no.2is declared valid and restored. present: advocate for petitioner. advocate and s.m. mohsin hamdani, advocate for the respondents. syed yasir hussain, eto (excise taxation officer), district gilgit. date of hearing: ---. judgment muhammad yaqoob, -baltistan dated --, by which writ petition filed by respondent no. page challenging the order the motor registration authority gilgit was allowed and the impugned -- was declared to be with out lawful authority and of no legal effect. the facts forming the background of this leave to appeal are that the respondent no. had purchased a truck troller be aring egistration no.glt model chases no. and engine no from the present petitioner in consideration of rs., (twelve lac only). respondent no. had paid the entire amount to the petitioner and the petitioner got tr ansferred duplicate registration book in the name of respondent no., but on --, the petitioner with malafide intention submitted an application to the motor registration authority gilgit, for cancellation of duplicate registration certificate wit the pretext that the respondent no. fraudulently transferred the ownership of vehicle through duplicate registration book as such the duplicate registration book may be cancelled. on the said application the motor registration authority had issued a final notice on --, to the res pondent no. with the direction that respondent no. will appear before them within a week to settle the dispute once for all vide office order sec mra(glt) () dated -- and --. the said notice was received by the respondent no. on --, and on the receipt of the said notice counsel for the petitioner (s.m. mohsin hamdani advocate) informed the motor registration authority gilgit in writing that the respondent no. will a ppear after eid -ul-fitr on --, but without giving opportunity to the respondent no. and before expiry of stipulated period mentioned in final notice, the motor registration authority gilgit cancelled the duplicate registration certificate owners hip of the respondent no. vide office --, which act of respondent no. is illegal, against fact, ex -parte, unheard and against the precious rights of the respondent no., as such the cancellation -- is liable to be set aside. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and perused relevant record of the case, the learned counsel for the petitioner strenuously argued, that the impugned judgment of the chief court gilgit baltistan is illegal, against the fact s, un-heard and against the norms of justice. hence not maintainable. he further contended that initially the truck troller cited above was sold in consideration of rs., to the respondent no.. th page ownership of the truck troller also transferred and handed over its duplicate co py of registration book to respondent no., despite completion of codel formalities respondent no. with held (fifty thousand only) without any reason, on account which petitioner have no option except to file representation for cancellation of duplicate registration book to respondent no.. he further submitted that motor registration authority (respondent no.) has rightly cancelled the duplicate registration bo ok and restore the ownership of present petitioner. counsel for petitioner further subm its that the chief court gilgit -baltistan has utterly failed to follow the mandatory provisions of order rule and of c.p.c. hence great miscarriage of therefore, the impugned judgment is not sustainable and liable to be set aside. on the other hand the learned counsel for respondent no. advocate submits that the -baltistan has ollowed all the mandatory provisions of law for summoning the present petitioner by adopting all the available means under order rule and of c.p.c. in spite of notice, the present petitioner did not appear before the chief court, therefore the .. learned counsel for respondent no. further submits that representative of respondent no. (motor registration authority gilgit) appeared before the after perusal of record, it appears that the first owner present petitioner appeared himself in the office of motor registration authority gilgit, with duplicate registration alongwith sale deed, etc. for transfer of ownership in favour of respondent no.. after going through the record the .. the respondent no. has already paid all amount and nothing is due on respondent no., as such, he request that this leave to appeal is not maintainable and liable to be dismissed. after giving careful consideration to the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties and erusal of the record of the case, we have come to the conclusion th at the learned division bench of the chief court has followed all the mandatory provisions of law for attendance of the present petitioner by adopting all the available means under order rule and of c.p.c. we have minutely gone into the impugned -baltistan, wherein the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan, has clearly referred the order sheet dated --, the contents of the order sheet and the relevant para of the impugned judgment of the chief court, which is reproduced herein below to appreciate the legal and fac tual aspects of the controversy: page notices were issued against the present petitioner respondent no. in the addresses mentioned and thereafter under order rule and of c.p.c. in the da ily nawa -e-waqt multan dated -- vide order sheet dated -- of the registrar of this court, but respondent no. present petitioner did not attend the court. despite of written request to respondent no., that respondent no. will a ppear before motor registration authority gilgit after edi-ul-fitr on --, but without giving opportunity to the respondent no. to meet the frivolous and con cocted allegations leveled by the present petitioner and before expiry of stipu lated period mentioned in the final notice, the respondent no. motor registration authority gilgit) has illegally cancelled the dupli cate copy of registration book, which act of respondent no. is ex -parte, unheard and against the precious ri ghts of the respondent no.. the learned division bench of chief court gilgit baltistan has rightly set aside the -- respondent no. (motor registration authority gilgit) as the result of above discus sion, we found no merit in this petition, the same is dismissed by upholding the judgment of division bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan dated --. leave is refused. petition di smissed announced. --.