page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. cpla. no. -ud-din, chief judge judge. saif ullah meher shah sazeen district kohistan kpk petitioner defendant. hafiz ehsan ullah abdul khabir gayal darail district diamer. provincial government through chief secretary gb. deputy commissioner collector diamer. secretary education colleges gb. director education colleges gb. principal ayub medical college abbottaba d. respondent plaintiffs. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order read with enabling rules of gb supreme appellate court against the impugned judgment .. he learned chief court gilgit balitstan in civil revision no. whereby setting aside the judgment order of vacation district .., judgment order of vacation civil .. and allow the temporary injunction of the petitioner plaintiff filed with suited and passed temporary injunction to the effect that the domicile certificate issued in favour of the respondent no. will be treated as suspended till final disposal of the suit. respondent no. to not to issue any fresh domicile certificate in favour of the respondent no. till final disposal of the suit. respondent no. to page restraining from making any nomination of respondent no. to the suit seat till final disposal of the suit withou any cogent reasons. for setting aside the impugned judgment .. learned chief court gilgit -baltistan and impugned judgment .. vacation civil .., by converting this leave to appeal into appeal and accepting the appeal for the ends of justice, law and equity. present:- the director college secretary nomination board education department gb. the dd nomination education department gb. dated of hearing: -- order -ud-din, cj .. the instant le ave to appeal has been directed against the order .., the learned chief court gb and .., the learned vacation civil the brief facts of the case are as such that the present petiti oner was nominated against the medical seat reserved for district diamer as the petitioner is domiciled resident of district diamer and he had obtained higher marks then the marks obtained by the present respondent no. the respondent no. challenged page the bonafide residency of the present petitioner though suit no. the main suit is subjudice before the learned civil we after hearing the present leave to appeal, honestly felt that if the matter is allowed to go through procedural formalities of the courts than the reserved seat of ayub medical college abbottabad will be lost and none of the parties will be able to avail the reserved seat in said medical co llage as a short span of time is left to get the admission therein. we feel that the loss will be not only to the parties of the suit but it will affect the gilgit baltistan at large. therefore, we tried to resolve the matter amicably without going in to he procedural formalities and asked the parties to settle the issue between themselves. they were given various chances for the said purpose, which failed. we intended to avoid any decision on merits, which would follow a lengthy procedure form civil cour up to this court. meanwhile, the secretary education gilgit -baltistan we appreciated the proposal as it is plausible and the parties of the petition have also consented to the proposal. since, the present petitioner has already been nominated against the reserved seat for district diamer in ayub medical collage abbottab ad, as such, we allow the nomination of the page present petitioner in the said medical collage against the reserved seat of district diamer gilgit -baltistan for this session. we also declare that the present respondent no. shall be entitled to get admission in ayub medical collage against a reserved seat for diamer district in the next year. we have taken cognizance matter in exercise of the original jurisdiction of this court and we disposed the suit no. calling the file of the suit in terms of the above stated settlement. in view of the matter, the instant leave to appeal is disposed of in the above terms. chief