page page of prov. govt. raja muhammad haleem in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit chief (against .. the gilgit -baltistan chief court, gilgit in writ petition no. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan secretary health gilgit -baltistan director health services, gilgit deputy director health services, gilgit district health officer, gilgit medical superintendent district headquarter hospital, gilgit section officer health department, gilgit petitioner raja muhammad haleem khan faiz muhammad khan (sweeper) bs- working as jmt health department, gilgit muhammad ijaz alif khan (naib qasid) bs -, working as vaccinator health department, gilgit khadim hussain mehrban ali, ward servant bs -, orking as jmt, health department, gilgit shafeeq ur rehman muhammad yousuf (naib qasid) bs -, working as jmt, health department, gilgit ali shah maddad (watchman) working as jmt, health department, gilgit respondent present: for the petitioners: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the respondents: muhammad saleem khan, advocate date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: this judgment shall dispose of the instant cpla directed against .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in writ petition no. whereby, the present petitioner were directed to adjust services of the present respondent against the posts held by them with immediate effect. page page of prov. govt. raja muhammad haleem brief facts of the case are that the present respondent while working against grade posts in various offices of health department, gilgit -baltistan and upon getting trainings in relevant fields were allowed to perform their duties against the posts of junior medical technicians (jmts) and vaccinator. they continued to work as such till advertisement of the said posts on .. for fresh appointments. the present respondents, being expectants for adjustment against the said posts, felt aggrieved because other similarly placed person were adjusted appointed without advertisement of the posts and putting them to go through the process of test interview. as such, they resorted to legal remedy before the courts of law by way of writ petition no. in the learned gilgit baltistan chief court. the learned chief court, after hearing the parties, accepted their writ petition and directed the present petitioner to adjust services of the present respondent against the said posts with immediate effect. being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the imp ugned judgment, the present petitioner have now approached this court with the instant civil leave to appeal. the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan argued that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court failed to apply its judic ious mind to the facts and grounds of the case because claim of the present respondent for adjustment of their services against the posts of junior medical technicians and vaccinator was not permissible under the law rules without exhausting the procedure prescribed there -under. the learned advocate general next argued that posts meant for direct recruitment could only be filled through open merit by advertising the said posts followed by test interview; hence claim of respondent of direct a djustment without observing the legal formalities could not be entertained. it was next argued by the learned advocate general that assigning of the additional duties to the present respondent was with a view to overcome the deficiency in the relevant fie lds which did not confer any right on the present respondent to claim regular adjustment against the said posts and prayed that since the impugned judgment suffered from illegality and infirmity, hence the same may please be set aside. page page of prov. govt. raja muhammad haleem on the other hand, the learned coun sel for the respondent while defending the impugned judgment argued that other similarly placed person were adjusted by the present petitioner without putting them to undergo the test interview process, hence the present respondent also deserved similar treatment. it was next argued by the leaned counsel for the respondent that act of the present petitioner of adjusting other similarly placed person and ignoring present respondent is a clear discrimination and injustice and against the principle of equal protection enshrined under the constitution. concluding his submissions, the learned counsel for the present respondent prayed for maintaining upholding the impugned judgment. arguments pro and contra heard. with the able assistance of the learned counsels, we have also gone through the case record as well as the impugned judgment minutely. it is an admitted fact that the present respondent were working against various grade posts in health depart ment, gilgit baltistan. there is no denial to the fact too that the present respondent got trainings of junior medical technicians and vaccinator and were assigned additional charge of the said posts and they worked as such. it is the case of the present respondent that they deserved to be adjusted against the disputed posts in line with other similarly persons who were adjusted against various technical posts on the basis of having relevant trainings by them. in order to substantiate the fact of adjustm ent of other similarly placed persons, the learned counsel for the respondents, through a civil misc. application, produced certain office orders of health department, gilgit -baltistan which are reproduced below: () government of gilgit -baltistan directorate of health services gilgit -baltistan no. dhs estb dated 27th march, page page of prov. govt. raja muhammad haleem office order (trained nursing) dhq gilgit is hereby adjusted appointed against the clear vacant post of junior medical technician bps c.d. khomar jutial dhq gilgit with immediate effect and till further orders. he will be on probation for a period of year under section of the civil servants act, if no order is issued after expiry of year, the probation sha ll be deemed to have been extended for further period of one year under section of the said rules. (dr. muhammad nazeem khan director health services gilgit () office of the medical superintendent district headquarter hopsital gilgit office order with the approval of the competent authority and in exercise of the administrative powers delegated to the medical superintendent dhq hospital, under kashmir affairs, northern affairs and saffron division islamabad letter no. f.() -na- dated .., the following ward servants chowkidar (trained nursing assistant) of dhq hospital are hereby adjusted against the clear vacant posts of nursing assistant (bps -) with effect from .. until furthers orders name designation adjusted against ward servant (trained nu rsing assistant) adjusted against the post of nursing assistant (bps -) ward servant (trained nursing assistant) adjusted against the post of nursing assistant (bps -) ward servant (trained nursing assistant) adjusted against the post of nursing assistant (bps -) ward servant (trained nursing assistant) adjusted against the post of nursing assistant (bps -) ward servant (trained nursing assistant) adjusted against the post of nursing assistant (bps -) ward servant (trained nursing assistant) adjusted against the post of nursing assistant (bps -) page page of prov. govt. raja muhammad haleem they will be on probation for a period of year extendable for a further period of one year under section of the civil servants act, if no order is issued under sub section of rule of civil servant (appointment, promotion and transfer) rules, and after expiry of first year of probation period shall be deemed to have been extended for further period of one year. (medical superintendent dhq hospital gilgit no. dhq dated 26th march, () government of gilgit -baltistan directorate of health services gilgit -baltistan no. dhs estb dated 1st april, office order ((trained nursing) dhq gilgit attached with dho ghizer and already working as nursing assistant is hereby adjusted appointed against the clear vacant post of nursing assistant bps dhq gilgit with immediate effect. he will be on probation for a period of year under section of the civil servants act, if no order is issued after expiry of 1st year, the probation shall be deemed to have been extended for further period of year under section of the said rules. (dr. muhammad nazeem khan) director health services gilgit () no. dhq estb government of gilgit -baltistan office of the district health officer gilgit dated november, office order (trained nursing assistant) chowkidar of dho office gilgit is hereby adjusted as nursing assistant (b-) against a clear vacant post of nursing assistant at dhq office with immediate effect. page page of prov. govt. raja muhammad haleem (dr. muhammad nazeem khan) director health services gilgit through the above office orders, persons working as ward servant and chowkidars were adjusted appointed against the clear vacant posts of junior medical technicians (jmts) and nursing assistants without advertis ing and following any proper test interview. the present respondent were also standing exactly on the same footings and were similarly placed person having the working experience and requisite qualifications and were deserving to be treated alike. but the authorities of the concerned department, for the reasons best known to them, did not do so and left the present respondent to check the fate of adjustment of their services through test interview. it is made clear that there is no avil to the legal proposition that every post meant for direct recruitment be filled up through open merit and after observing all the codal formalities, but in the case in hand, the situation is different as perusal of the above office orders, it is cryst al clear that few similar posts were fi lled by internally adjusting ward servant and chowkidars while the posts against which the present respondent were working, were advertized for fresh appointments through test interview which gave rise to resentment and heart burning to the present respondents. this act of pick and chose and failure to treat the similarly placed persons in similar manner on the part of authorities of concerned department smacked malafides and requires to be discouraged for the times to come. the present respondent while working against the disputed posts had also gained experience of those posts which had already been utilized by the petitioners. in number of similar cases, this court has been issuing directives to the public functionaries for avoiding such practice. for the sake of reference, relevant part from one of those cases tiled provincial government others raziq hussain cpla no. wherein this court has held as under: in view of the circumstances, it would not be exaggeration in any sense of the word if the case in hand is termed as a flagrant example of disparity and discrimination. we are unable to understand that despite lear directives of this court as well as superior page page of prov. govt. raja muhammad haleem courts of pakistan directing the public functionaries to avoid treatment of discrimination while dealing with the cases of employees of a department. it is noted with pain that at times the concerned govern ment authorities in total disregard to law rules as well as judgments of superior courts, tend to violate the same and cause serious violation of the settled principles of natural justice. in each and every case involving the question with regard to the se rvices of government employees, this court has been issuing directives to the government authorities to ensure equal treatment amongst equals as mandated by law and while using their authority must refrain from discrimin ation in any manner whatsoever, but it appeared that the government authorities do not bother to go through the same directives. the the observations of the messrs arshad company capital development authority islamabad through chairman scmr relevant part is reproduced below: every exercise of discretion is not an act of discrimination as discretion becomes an act of discrimination only when it is improbable or capricious exercise or abuse of discretionary powers while dealing with the issue of equality amongst equals, the .a sharwani others govt. of pakistan through secretary finance division islamabad others scmr has held as under: that equal protection of law does not envisage that every citizen is to be treated alike in all circumstances, but it contemplates that persons imilarly situated or similarly placed are to be treated alike under the law, the government authorities cannot be left at liberty to make unreasonable classification of similarly placed persons and resort to an action which would benefit one set of perso ns and the same action would prove to be detrimental to other set of similarly placed persons as far as experience gained by the present respondent during performance of duties against the disputed posts and its best utilization by page page of prov. govt. raja muhammad haleem the health department is concerned, this court in a case titled provincial government others manzoor ahmed cpla under objection no. has held as under: the second aspect of the case is the experience. experience is more often than not a prerequisite attached to a post(s) for all the new recruitments. the appointees on contracts, who worked against a particular post in a government service for whatever period, acquire knowledge and experience of the posts held by them on contract; as such they can prod uce better result and services than the new appointees. however, it has to be seen that initial appointments of such contractual appointees have been made in accordance with the method prescribed under the relevant law rules inasmuch as such appointments were urgently required to cater for the genuine requirements of the concerned departments in view of above factual and legal position, we are of the considered view that the health department, gilgit -baltistan has badly failed to exercise their powers in just and fair manner which tantamount to discrimination and violation of the principal of equal protection of law enshrined in the constitution of islamic republic of pakistan and gilgit baltistan order, the authorities of the health department are bound under the law to dispose of such case strictly in accordance with the law rules and ensure that their acts do not discriminate or prejudice other employees and create unreasonable classification amongst the similarly placed set of employees. in addition to this, the principle of fair dealing and fair play is also of great import in islamic the authorities are bound to obey the commands of holy quran and sunnah which command to treat people justly and deal them in a fair manner as under: god commands foregoing in view, we do not find any illegality or infirmity in the impugned judgment which could call for interferenc of this court. therefore, leave in the above cpla no. is refused. the impugned page page of prov. govt. raja muhammad haleem .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in writ petition no is maintained. these were the reasons for our short order dat ed .. which is reproduced below: case heard and record perused. from perusal of the record, it reveals that certain counterparts co -associates of the respondent have been regularized from time to time while the respondent have not been conside red, as such they have been deprived of the benefits of regularization. therefore, for the reasons to be recorded later, leave in the above cpla no. is refused. the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in writ petition no. is mai ntained chief (yes no