page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. civil appeal no in cpla. no. zafar iqbal petitioner. baba jan son of abdullah baig nasirabad hunza. respondent. returning officer gbla hunza -. chief election commissioner gilgit -baltistan. proforma respondents. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan. the deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit. shaheen shah returning officer for election commission gilgit baltistan. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal was directed against the impugned .. in election appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan appellate tribunal. whereby the learned appellate tribunal set aside the .. the respondent no. for rejection of the nomination papers of the respondent no.. consequently, the respondent no. was declared as qualified candidate to contest the by e- election for the constituency gbla -, hunza nagar.iii. the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner was questioned as to whether the petitioner has locus standi to file page this petition. in reply he submitted that initially the petitioner raised objection regarding the conviction of the respondent no. before the respondent no. which has not been mentioned by the respondent no. in his .. for the reas ons best known to him. since through this petition it has been brought in the knowledge of this court about the conviction of the respondent no. recorded by the learned anti -terrorism court gilgit which holds field. consequently, this petition vide orde dated .. was converted under article of the gilgit -baltistan (empowermen self governance) order consequent thereto, notices were issued to all the respondent as well as to the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit and the learned advocate general to examine as to whether the provision of the section of the representation of the people act, and article (c) of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order are attracted or otherwise. in the meantime the learned counsel for the petitioner filed ivil misc. no. in cpla no. whereby he submitted the following documents: i. copy of the short .. of this court passed in criminal appeal no. and whereby the state appeals were allowed by majority decision while maintaining the conviction and sentences the learned anti -terrorism court gilgit and set aside the impugned page .. in criminal appeals no. and the learned gilgit baltistan chief court. ii. copy of the notification no. elc-() -gbla dated .. whereby the appellate tribunal was constituted to hear appeals against the acceptance rejection of he nomination papers powers conferred under section () by appointing baltistan chief court and -baltistan chief court as members of the learned gilgit -baltistan election trib unal. iii. copy of notification no. elc -() -gbla dated .. was issued in continuation of the commission earlier notification no. elc -() -gbla dated ... the tribunal appointed on .. during the general election will try appeals, if any filed with the tribunal during the bye -election of constituency no. gbla hunza -nagar -iii. the election schedule for the said constituency has already been notified. iv. copy of notification no. elc -() -gbla dated .. in partial modifi cation of the commission notification of even no. dated 23rd april, and in pursuance of the notification as notified on .. the learned chief election commissioner gilgit -baltistan has been pleased to appoint (being on leave) with immediate effect. on .. the case was adjourned by consent and -baltistan was verbally directed to satisfy this court on the next date of hearing as to whether the learned chief election commissioner gilgit -baltistan was conferred powers:- a. to issue notification for bye -election in terms of section read with section of the representation of the people act, b. as to whether the learned chief election commissioner gilgit baltistan was competent to issue notification no. elc () -gbla dated .. and .. for constituting the election appellate tribunal and appointing (being on leave)? c. as to whether the learned returning officer rejected the nomination papers of one of the contesting candidate namely baba jan contesting bye -election on the application of zafar iqbal or at his own information regarding his conviction. the case was taken up on .. wherein the same questions were asked from the learned counsel for the respondent no. i.e. the election commission gilgit baltistan. the case was adjourned to .. on that day it was observed that one of the contesting candidates of the bye page election of the said constituency i.e. prince saleem khan who instead of being defaulter has been declared candidate to contest bye-election by the returning officer on the bas is of a stay .. in civil misc. no. a learned single -baltistan chief court in chamber. according to the said stay order the case was fixed for hearing on .. before the division bench but till today the learned chief election commissioner or the learned returning officer has not obtained any copy of the proceeding held on .. in the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. whereafter his court issued notices to all the contesting candidates for their appearance on .. and finally the case was heard. this court has asked the same questions to the learned counsel for the respondent no. who could not satisfy this court regarding the queries so raised as well as legally justify for issuance of aforementioned notification s. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties, the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit, the learned advocate general, perused the record of the case file and gone through all the notifications issued by the election commission gilgit -baltistan. consequently, this petition is converted into an appeal and the same is disposed off in the following terms: (i). direct the chief electio commissioner gilgit -baltistan to announce fresh schedule of bye -election to fill in the vacant seat of page the constituency gbla hunza -nagar -iii, issue notifications thereto strictly in terms of section section and section () of the representation of the people act, and adoptation order -ii of the earlier notification, if any, issued in violation of the aforementioned provisions of law would be considered illegal, void ab -initio and have been issued without lawful authority. (ii). the notification no. elc -() -gbla dated .. for appointing (being on leave) is also set aside being illegal, void ab -initio and has been issued without lawful authority. consequent thereto, the impugned .. in election appeal no. the learned election tribunal gilgit -baltistan chief court is also set aside. (iii). the stay .. in civil misc. no. the learned single -baltistan chief court in chamber is also set aside. the learned chief court is directed to decide the civil first appeal no. titled prince saleem khan national bank of pakistan etc on its own merit within a period of two () weeks on receipt of this order. (iv). the election commission is directed to appoint returning officer in terms section of the representation of the people act, and in case the contesting candidates show any re servation then a judicial officer not below the rank of additional district page -baltistan chief court. in view of the above discussion, the learned chief election commissioner gilgi t-baltistan is directed to issue fresh election schedule and notification thereto for bye -election on the said constituency strictly in terms of section and () of the representation of the people act, and adaptation order -ii of after completing all codal formalities and complete all election process including holding bye -election of gbla -, hunza nagar -iii within a period of forty five () days on receipt of this order. the copies of this order be sent to the learned chairman gilgit -baltistan council the prime minister, islamic republic of pakistan, the learned chief election commissioner gilgit -baltistan, the learned registrar gilgit -baltistan chief court, the learned chief secretary gilgit -baltistan, the learned deputy attorn ey general for pakistan at gilgit and the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan for information and compliance. the appeal is disposed off in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?