page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cpla no. syed mubarak shah others. petitioner s. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan and others. respondent s. present:- malik kifayat -ur-rehman advocate for the petitioners. date of hearing: .. order. this leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court in writ petition no. whereby the said writ petition filed by the petitioner was partially accepted with the directions that the answering respondent to promote the petitioner rom the date of filing the wr it petition, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner are performing their duties as elementary school teachers under education department gilgit -baltistan. he also submits that post of elementary school teacher (est) was upgraded by the ministry of finance, regulation wing, government of pakistan islamabad vide its office memorandum no. -xi () dated ... consequently, all the colleagues of the petitioner throughout the country have been upgraded from bps page to bps but the same up -gradation has not been granted to the petitioner by the espondents despite their repeated requests. the petitioner being aggrieved by filed a writ petition no. in the learned chief court contending that the posts of elementary school teacher (est) may graciously be upgraded from bps- to bps in erms of the office memorandum no. f- xi() dated .. issued by the ministry of finance, regulation wing, government of pakistan islamaba d. the learned chief court upon hearing partially accepted the said writ petition by directing the official respondent to upgrade their post with effect from the petitioner claimed that they be upgraded from the date of their initial appointment i.e. at par with their colleagues which was not accepted by the learned chief court. the petitioner bei ng aggrieved by with the impugned judgment filed this leave to appeal. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned .. the le arned chief court in writ petition no. although, the writ petition of the petitioner was barred by time for period of more than years as the notification was issued on .. and the writ was filed in the year yet in view of the office memorandum of finance division islamabad, the said writ petition was partially accepted by the learned chief court. secondly, no departmental appeal was moved to the competent authorities by the petitioner for redressal page of their grievance within time. further, the learned counsel for the petition could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment the learned chief court. in view of the above discussions, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. he leave is accordingly refused. the impugned .. the learned chief court is affirmed. the leave is refused in above terms. chief judge. judge.