page in the supsreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan c.p.l.a. no. chief judge. judge. .jan muhammad .abdul khaliq .abdul rauf sons lrs of mst. khairun-nisa .mst. khanum muhammad musa makiyal district astore appellant plaintiffs. muhammad musa muhammad makiyal tehsil district astore appellant defendant leave to the order judgment, dated -, single bench of the chief court gilgit-baltistan gilgit, whereby, the learned the civil revision of respondent, without cogent reasons. present:-. advocate, assisted by advocate on record for appellant for respondents. date of hearing --. judgment syed jaffar shah, .. this appeal by leave of this court is directed against -- single bench of chief court gilgit in civil revision no. whereby the learned .brief facts leading to the present petition are that the mother of petitioner mst. khairun nisah filed a civil suit in the court of civil and which was resisted by respondent. however during pendency of the lis mst. khairum nisah died and the present petitioner represented her as her legal heirs. .that during pendency of the said suit the plaintiff filed an application before the additional district and sessions the learned additional district and sessions --. this order was also maintained by learned chief court in a civil revision filed by the defendant respondent. page .after transfer of the case to the court of civil -prate vide --, recorded statements of p.w in absence of defendant respondent and adjourned the case for consideration, but before passing any ex-parte decree the defendant respondent appeared before the trial court on appointed dated i.e. and moved an application for setting aside ex-parte proceedings dated --, the trial court fixed a date i.e. -- for arguments on the application but before the fate of this application could be decided, the record of the case was requisitioned by the chief court as the defendant had challenged the transfer order in a revision petition before it. .the chief court maintained the order of additional district and sessions -- and directed the parties to appear before the trial court i.e. civil -- as directed by chief court, and the defendant respondent was again proceeded ex-parte and consequently an ex-parte decree infavour of plaintiff petitioner was granted on -- .the defendant respondent challenged the ex-parte decree dated -- in the 1st appellate court which was dismissed vide -- having been barred by time, but the learned chief court in an appeal filed by the defendant respondent reversed findings of both the lower court, set aside the ex-parte decree and remanded back the matter to trial court for its disposal on merits with the following observation. i therefore recall both the impugned orders lower courts but the defendant are also penalized for their relaxed attitude in proceedings the case against them, by imposing cost of rs. and the case is remitted back to the civil parties to appear before the learned civil court chillas on --. 6the above order of learned chief court was called in question before this court in c.p.l.a.no. and this court while setting aside the findings of the chief court remanded the matter back to learned chief court for recording a reason based judgment after treating the second appeal as revision. 7on remand the learned chief court while treating the civil suit as revision as directed by this court, decided the controversy in issue vide impugned judgment and maintained its previous decision, resultantly the page ex-parte decree was set aside and the matter was remanded back to trial court with the following observations. consequent upon the above discussion, both the impugned orders decree the learned trial court as well as the learned additional district filed by the defendant and to dispose the same on merits then to move towards the suit. the trial court is also directed to expedite the trial keeping in view the delay caused in the matter. the defendant is also penalized to pay cost of rs. for his irresponsible attitude in the case, parties to appear before the trial court on -- .having been aggrieved and dissatisfied with the above -- learned chief court the petitioner have filed the present appeal and this court on -- granted leave to appeal as under:- the learned counsel contended that chief court instead of deciding the question of limitation in appeal before the learned district judge, while traveling on wrong premises has set aside ex-parte decree the court of first instance and maintained by the appellant court, on the ground that the order of ex-parte proceedings was passed on a date which was not the date of hearing whereas the said order was passed on the date on which the case was fixed for evidence and in that the impugned judgment is badly suffering from material illegality. the contention raised requires consideration. leave is accordingly granted in this petition with direction that main appeal shall be heard on present record with permission to the parties to place on record the additional documents if any. the appeal shall be fixed in the last week of may .we have carefully examined the contentions of learned counsel for parties in the light of relevant provision of law and record of the case. we have also perused the judgment single bench of chief court as well as judgment of lower court. .the crucial question for determination is whether the 1st appeal before additional district -parte proceedings was initiated was a date of hearing. a close scrutiny of the record of the case would reveal that the ex-parte proceedings were taken against the defendant respondent on -- when the defendant respondent did not put his attendance before the trial court after transfer of the case from the court of civil consequently the trial court proceeded the defendant respondent ex-parte. it is an admitted fact that the defendant appeared on following date i.e. -- and filed an application for setting aside the ex- page parte proceedings dated --, but during pendency of this application the of the case was called by the chief court which was remitted back to trial court after disposal of a revision petition filed by the defendant respondent, and the parties were directed to appear before the trial court on -- but as a result of his failure to attend the trial court, the defendant respondent was once again proceeded ex-parte followed by ex-parte decree dated --. .the record also reveals that the date on which ex-parte proceeding were initiated was fixed for disposal of an interlocutory application i.e. for setting aside of ex-parte proceedings, the trial court was required to have decided the fate of application dated -- first and than to proceed on wards, but the trial court instead of dealing with the application ordered ex-parte proceedings and consequently passed the ex-parte decree against the defendant respondent. since this was not a date for hearing as such ex-parte proceedings and all subsequent orders including ex-parte decree in consequence thereof trial court are of no legal effect and void and liable to be set aside. .so far as question of limitation is concerned the application for setting aside ex- parte proceedings was filed within a period of days as such the application was within time. secondly as stated earlier the ex-parte decree was passed on a date which was fixed for hearing of an interlocutory application and was not a date of hearing as such no limitation will run against it and the same could be set aside by invoking inherent powers under section cpc. according period of limitation would be regulated by residuary article of limitation act. and not article of limitation act. article limitation act provides three years limitation period for setting aside of ex-parte decree while in the present case the ex-parte decree was passed on -- and appeal was filed on -- against ex-parte decree which was not time barred, learned single bench of the chief court has rightly set aside the same. .what has been discussed above we have come to the conclusion that the findings recorded by the learned chief court in the impugned judgment are based on cogent and plausible reasons warranting no interference, consequently the appeal fails and is hereby dismissed with no order as to cost. appeal dismissed. chief