page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit c.pl.a no. -ud-din acting chief judge. ,judge. .chairman aga khan education service pakistan. .chief executive office akesp,kda vii block -, h.no. uzma plaza clifton karachi. general manager, akesp gb, office at konodass, kiu road gilgit. .field education officer akesp gupis. .head feo akesp gupis. .teacher educator feo gupis. manager uman resources akesp office situated at konodas gilgit. petitioner mst.shabnam daughter of afiat khan wife of habib jan residents of village dahimal tehsil gupis distrtict ghizer. respondent plaintiff leave to appe al under article of gilgit baltistan (empowerment self governance) order against the impugned --, the chief court gilgit -baltistan. present: mr.ali dad khan advocate for the petitioners. mr.latif shah advoca te for the respondent. date of hearing: --: judgment:- --, a learned single -baltistan. since the learned counsel for the petitioner had raised some legal points which required thorough page consideration as such we noticed to the respondent to meet the same. we after hearing, both the counsel for the parties reached to the conclusion that the petition cannot be converted into appeal as the same is meritless for the easons here after to be recorded. the brief facts wrapped with this petition are as such that the present petitioner holding administration of a private group of education in gilgit -baltistan. the petitioner appointed the present respondent against a acant post in primary school khalti in the year the respondent passed f.a. and ptc, during her services. after lapse of years of her service, the petitioner introduced a scheme called appraisal (scheme), whereby the respondent terminated th services of the petitioner as teacher in the said school. the present respondent being aggrieved from the termination order filed the suit no. before the learned court of civil the learned civil --. the present respondent filed ist appeal before the court of learned district the learned district the present petitioner filed revision petition no. before the page learned chief court gilgit -baltistan and a learned single -- and maintained the judgment the learned district hence this petition before this court against the impugned judgment the learned single baltistan. the learned couns el for the petitioner urges that the present respondent lacks teaching abilities, but record otherwise shows that, she passed her f.a. examination and also succeeded to pass her c.t. examination during her service as a teacher in the said institution. she has gone through various trainings and workshops under the education system running by the present petitioner as such she was placed in top -c by the administration. the learned counsel for the petitioner assails the maintainability of the suit and also jurisdiction of the civil courts with the contention that since the petitioner are a company corporation under the company ordinance and has its own rules as such principle of master and servant applies to the instant case and the civil courts la ck jurisdiction to entertain any suit against the petitioner by their servants. we are in consonance with the findings of the learned single bench of the chief court and disagree with the learned counsel regarding the jurisdiction. the respondent are run ning an page educational institution in gilgit -baltistan and teachers appointed by them in various institutions could not be let at the mercy of the petitioner on pretext of principle of master and servant because as per legal maxim ubi jus ibi remedium, where there is a right. there is a remedy. it is further to say that, the respondent came within the definition of legal person and they can be sued against. last but not the least, the present respondent has spent precious years of her life in the said institution and all of a sudden, after expiry of her age to get any service in any other institution department, the petitioner under principle of equity might not be allowed to kick the poor lady out from her respective service on the pretext of rinciple of master and servant the respondent to mind it that, the age of slavery has gone and the principle of master and servant does not mean the principle of slavery hence the petition is refused to grant and the impugned order is upheld. announced. -- petition refused acting chief