page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. cpla no. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. barat ali and others. petitioner appellant plaintiffs. mst. ma her banu others respondent s. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, against the impugned judgment decree dated .. the chief court gilgit baltistan i ncivil revision no. whereby acce pting the revision petition the judgment decree additional district nagar dated .. and judgment decree dated .. the civil for setti ng aside the impugned judgment decree of learned chief court dated .. admitting this leave to appeal into an appeal and accepting the appeal judgments decrees of 1st appellate court and trial court may kindly be maintained or the end justice, law and equity. present: dated of hearing: --. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner filed civil suit no. in the court of the civil -in-terest in favour of the petitioners. since then they are not in possession of the said land. he further submits that the .. was upheld by the page first appellate authority i.e. the learned district .. in civil appeal no. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment filed revision no. before the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan, which upon hearing was accepted and the judgments of both the court below were reversed vide its ... being a ggrieved by and dissatisfied with the impugned judgment the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan in civil revision no. dated .. the petitioner challenged the said judgment in this court with the contention that the same is illega l, incorrect and arbitrary and based on non -reading and non appreciation of evidence on record, hence, the same is not sustainable and liable to set aside. he further contends that the impugned .. is based merely over opinion and conjectures and surmises which caused the miscarriage of justice. he also contended that the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan failed to apply its judicial mind to the facts regarding legality of the gift which was executed in favour of the petitioner and the findings of the learned chief court thereto are not tenable in law. lastly, he contended that the findings of the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan are perverse and ambiguous and against the material on record and prayed that judgment of learne chief court gilgit -baltistan is not sustainable and liable to set aside and the judgments of the learned civil we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioners, perused the record and gone through the judgment passed in civil revision no. dated .., by the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan, which is, in our considered view is well reasoned and well founded. since, no illegality and infirmity has been pointed out by the learned counsel for the petitioner in the said impugned judgment, therefore, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal in the instant petition. leave is accordingly refused. the order .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan is maintained. leave refused. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be re ported or not?