page page of (prov. govt. raziq hussain in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan, gilgit chief (against .. passed gilgit-baltistan chief court in writ petition no. provincial government through chief secretary gb secretary food, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit secretary services, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit director food, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. petitioner raziq hussain aman ali shah sakwar district gilgit. respondent present: for the petitioners: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan advocate on record for the respondent: sr. advocate date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: this judgment shall dispose of the above civil leave to appeal directed against .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, gilgit, whereby writ petition no. filed by the respondent was accepted. facts in brief, giving rise to institution of this cpla, are that vide office order no. admin () dcs dated 26th september, the respondent was appointed as assistant civil supply inspector (acsi) bps- on contract basis for a period of year. subsequently, on 7th october, contract period of the page page of (prov. govt. raziq hussain respondent was extended for another one year. on 20th january, the respondent approached the petitioner no. (director food, gb with an application for extension of his contract period as well as payment of salary. the petitioner no. forwarded the application to the petitioner no. (secretary food, gb) with the recommendation that either contract period of responden be extended or he be appointed against a clear vacant post of weigh -man in a project installation of digital weigh bridges and monitoring system in food department the recommendation letter initiated by the petitioner no. remained un-responded on the part of the petitioner no. thereafter, the vacant posts of acsis (bps -) were advertised by the petitioner for direct recruitment s. being aggrieved of and dissatisfied with the attitude of the petitioners, the respondent resorted to egal remedy before the chief court, gb by way of a writ petition no. the learned chief court, after hearing the parties, passed its .. whereby the petitioner were directed to appoint adjust the respondent against the post of acsi (bs -) in the food department gb w.e.f. the date of passing of the impugned judgment and directed for the release of salary to the respondent for the period he perfo rmed duties as contract contingent acsi, hence this cpla. the above cpla was heard on .. and notices were issued to the respondents. on the same date, operation of the impugned judgment was also suspended, which still holds the field. the learned counsel for the respondent, during course of arguments on .., request ed for permission to submit a list alongwith office orders pertaining to the appointment adjustment of other similarly placed persons in the food department. request page page of (prov. govt. raziq hussain was allowed with the direction to submit the same through a separate misc. application. in pursuance of the permission directives, the learned counsel for the respondent submitted list alongwith relevant documents through civil misc. application no. which was made part of the cpla in hand. the learned advocate general, gb argued that the learned chief court failed to appreciate the fact that since, the period of contract appointment of the respondent expired on .. and no further extension was granted to him, hence there does not arise any question of performance of duty by the respondent till the date of filing of the writ petition on 8th february, before the learned chief court. he maintained that the posts of acis had already been advertised and the respondent could have had taken part in the test interview, but instead in order to get an order in his favour and to avoid test interview, he filed a writ petition before the chief court with false contentions as well as pretending him to be a contract employee of the food department. the learned advocate general, gb further argued that instead of appreciating the facts involved in the case, the learned chief court resorted to referring to the cases of some illegal appointments made by some dishonest government authorities prior to he next argued that the learned chief court, gb illegally and without lawful authority directed the petitioner to pay salary of the respondent for a per iod during which the respondent did not serve the food department. conversely, the learned counsel for the respondent advanced his arguments by submitting that the respondent performed his duties to the entire satisfaction of his page page of (prov. govt. raziq hussain superiors, which was evident from the recommendation letter of the petitioner no. addressed to the petitioner no. for extension of his contract period or to appoint him against the post of weigh -man. the learned counsel maintained that the respondent was appointed agai nst the clear vacant post of acsi (bps -) on contract basis, which period was further extended to another one year keeping in view the satisfactory performance of duty perform ed by the respondent. he further argued that it was a case of discrimination and malafide because a number of similarly placed contract contingent employees working in various offices of the food department across gb were appointed adjusted against the posts already held by them, either under the contract employees (regularization act ), or otherwise, while the respondent was singled out. in order to fortify his submissions, the learned counsel presented a list alongwith office order whereby a number of contract contingent employees in the food department, gb were regularized. the learned counsel for the respondent vehemently defended the impugned judgment the learned chief court, gb in the writ petition mentioned herein above. we have heard the learned counsel for both the parties. with their able assistance, we have also gone through the relevant record and the impugned judgment the learned chief court, gb in writ petition no. we observed that the appointment of the respondent as acsi bs was disputed neither before the learned chief court nor before this court. it is presumed without any shadow of doubt that performance of the respondent remained satisfactory during the contr act period and it was on the basis of his performance that the petitioner page page of (prov. govt. raziq hussain no. recommended his case to the petitioner no. for extension of contract period or adjustment of the respondent against the vacant post of weigh -man in the project mentioned in he said recommendation letter. from perusal of office order provided by the learned counsel for the respondent, surprisingly noticed that a huge number of contract contingent employees of different cadres working on contract contingent basis in various offices of food department, gilgit -baltistan were regularized. the total number of acsi appointed out of the total strength of contingent staff came to a figure of about employees. these office orders were not disputed denied by the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan. it is noted that the respondent was also a contract acsi at par with the other regularized acsis, then what could be the reasons justifying the authorities of food department to single out the respondent from the process of regularization. be that as it may, a fter judgment in favour of the respondent from the learned chief court, i line with regularization of the acsis, the judgment should have been implemented by the authorities of food department. in the peculiar circumstances of the case emerging after regulariza tion of hundreds of contingent contract staff, the food department should have regularized the respondent at par with others regularized staff. in view of the circumstances, i would not be exaggeration in any sense of the word if the case in hand is termed as a flagrant example of disparity and discrimination. we are unable to understand that despite clear directives of this court as well as superior courts of pakistan directing the public functionaries to avoid treatment of discriminat ion while dealing with the cases of employees of a department. it is noted with pain that at times the page page of (prov. govt. raziq hussain concerned government authorities in total disregard to law rules as well as judgments of superior courts, tend to violate the same and cause serious violation of the settled principles of natural justice. in each and every case involving the question with regard to the services of government employees, this court has been issuing directives to the government authorities to ensure equal treatment amongst equals as mandated by law and while using their authority must refrain from discrimination in any manner whatsoever. but it appeared that the government authorities do not bother to go through the same directives. the the observations of the messrs arshad company capital development authority islamabad through chairman scmr relevant part is reproduced below: every exercise of discretion is not an act of discrimination as discretion becomes an act of discrimination only when it is improbable or capricious exercise or abuse of discretionary powers while dealing with the issue of equality amongst equals, the .a sharwani others govt. of pakistan through secretary finance division islam abad others scmr has held as under: that equal protection of law does not envisage that every citizen is to be treated alike in all circumstances, but it contemplates that persons similarly situated or similarly placed are to be treated al ike page page of (prov. govt. raziq hussain under the law, the government authorities cannot be left at liberty to make unreasonable classification of similarly placed persons and resort to an action which would benefit one set of persons and the same action would prove to be detrimental to ther set of similarly placed persons. in order to strength this observation, we lend support from a judgment of the ghulam mustafa scmr wherein it has been held as under: after hearing the learned counsel and having gone through the operative paras of the impugned judgment, we are of the opinion that as far as the respondent are concerned, they have to be treated at par with the employees in whose favour decision has be en taken by the high court as well as by this court. therefore, in absence of any reasonable classification, no exception can be taken to the impugned judgment in addition to above, the legislatures have also issued certain instructions to the public functionaries in the form of general clauses act. relevant section of the said act which lay down the legal obligations responsibilities on the public functionaries is which is reproduced below: 24a. exercise of power under enactments. (). where by or under any enactment, a power to make any order to give any direction is conferred on any authority, office or person such power shall be exercised reasonably, fairly, justly and for the advancement of the purpose of the enactment while discussing the responsibilities of the public functionaries under 24a of the general clauses act, this court in a case titled provincial government gb through page page of (prov. govt. raziq hussain chief secretary others niaz ali ot hers (cpla no. as held as under: under he law, it is obligatory upon the public functionaries to redress grievances of general public including their subordinate employees in accordance with the law. in this regard, it is pertinent to mention here that in order to make the public functionaries realize their responsibilities, the legislature has felt it imperative to insert in the general clauses acts laying down responsibilities of the public functionaries the outcome of the above discussion observations is that the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan has badly failed to make out a case for inference with the impugned judgment. we did not find any illegality, irregularity or infirmity in the impugned judgment. as a result, leave in the above cpla no. is refused and impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in writ petition no. is maintained. the petitioner are directed to comply with the impugned judgment and submit compliance report to the registrar of this court. the above were the reasons for our short .. which is produced below: learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan has been heard. for the reasons to be recorded later, the leave in cpla no. is refused and civil misc. no. is dismissed. the .. the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan in writ petition no. is maintained chief (yes no