page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cpla no. nazim, akram (late) through legal heirs, i. mst gul zarin, ii. nusrat, iii. basharat, iv. aslam, v. karamat, vi. barkat, vii. waqar, viii naveeda, ix. kainat sons daughters of late akram, muhammad aziz son of muhammad nabi. petitioners. muhammad musa son of ahmed joo. haji fareedullah son of abdul hamid. sultan aziz son of ahmed joo napura basin gilgit tehsil district gilgit. respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby the civil revision no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed by maintaining the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. the precise facts of the case are that the respondent plaintiff no. mortgage the disputed property with the respondent no. against a sum of rs. under khasra no. measuring six () kanals through a deed executed on ... the respondent no. failed to pay the debt amount to the respondent no. within a stipulated time. upon failure of the said amount, the mortgage land was page transferred through sale between the petitioner and respondent no. the respondent no. 01being aggrieved filed civil suit no. before the learned civil -. the respondent being aggrieved filed civil first appeal no. before the learned district ... the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court also dismissed the civil revision being meritless. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the respondent no. mortgaged his immoveable property ad measuring six () kanals with the respondent no. against a loan amount of rs. vide agreement dated ... he also su bmits that the respondent no. failed to pay the said amount within the stipulate time as per agreed terms, hence, the respondent no. become the real owner of the land and he being the owner sold the said land to the petitioners. he also submits he petitioner sold out one kanal land out of the disputed land to one muhammad sharif, one kanal to muhammad aziz and one kanal to akram and two kanals to nazim muhammad petitioner no. and respectively. the petitioner after purchasing the land in question developed the same while constructing residential house over it and at the time of cultivation development of the suit land no objection raised by the respondents. he further submits that page after a considera ble period of time the respondent filed civil suit before the learned trial court which was wrongly decreed in favour of the respondent which was upheld by the first appellate court as well as the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. he finally argued that all the three courts below have failed to apply their judicial mind in deciding the matter in question, hence, the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgments of the courts below are no sustainable. conversely, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment the learned gilgit baltistan chief court. he submits that once a mortgage always a mortgage. he also contends that the petitioner were well aware about the transaction of the suit land who malafidely entered into the illegal purchase of the land in question. the responsibility of such illegal transaction fall upon the petitioner as the respon dents cannot be held accountable for such illegal deal. he finally contends that the impugned .. of the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgments the learned courts below are well reasoned and well found ed which are required to be maintained to score the ends of justice. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the page learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgments of the courts below. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment. in our considered view the impugned judgment is well reasoned and well founded being passed in accordance with law and facts of the case and no interference is warranted. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned gilgit baltistan chief court is maintained. the petition is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?