page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. cpla no. -ud-din, acting chief judge. judge. fida hussain lumberdar asghar ali khomer tehsil and district gilgit petitioner. provincial government through chief secretary gb. collector dc gilgit. secretary works gb gilgit. executive engineer gb pwd, gilgit. secretary health gb. district health officer gilgi t. respondents. leave appeal under article no. of gb (empowerment) and self governance order read with enabling articles of constitution of islamic republic of pakistan to the effect that the impugned order of the learned db of chief court gilgit -baltistan dated -- may graciously be set aside by converting this leave to appeal into appeal and by accepting this leave to appeal.w.petition no. may graciously be remitted back to the learned db chief cou rt for its adjudication on merits to meet the ends of the justice. page present: malik shafqat wali senior advocate for the petitioner. date of hearing: ---. order raja jalal -ud-din, acting chief judge ..this leave to appeal has been preferred against the -- in civil misc. the learned division bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan, whereby the learned division bench refused the writ petition bearing no. of the facts in brief of the case are that the present petitioner has moved a writ petition before the chief court gilgit -baltistan for setting aside the impugned --, but the learned division bench of chief court gilgit -baltis tan dismissed the same at preliminary stage, hence, this leave to appeal has been directed before this court. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner in detail and the consignment of record has also been perused. the case is tim barred by approximately one year. the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner cannot prove sufficient reasons to grant leave to page appeal in the case in hand. consequently, leave to appeal in this case is refused and the case is disposed off a having been time barred. acting chief judge. judge