page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit (appellate jurisdiction) cpla no. chief judge. -ud-din, judge. provincial government gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. inspector general of police gilgit -baltistan. senior superintendent of police district ghizer. petitioner jan wali gul hakeen hakis tehsil gupis district ghizer at present fc, sp office, ghizer. .. respondent leave appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and sel governance) order, read wit supreme appellate court rules, ag ainst the judgment .. the chief court ilgit -baltistan. present: advocate general gilgit -baltistan. date of hearing: ... judgment cj: this petition by way of special leave to appeal is directed against the .., the learned single baltistan whereby civil miscellaneous application no. filed by the writ petitioner for the implementation of the judgment .., passed i writ petition no. was accepted with the direction to the respondent for payment of back benefits to respondent herein. page the facts in brief as gleaned out from the record are that the respondent was recruited as foot constable vide order da ted ... he, thereafter, completed his training period successfully and remained posted at different places in the police department. the service of the respondent herein were terminated by the competent authority vide order no. sp gzr -() da ted .. on the main charge of having involved in case fir no. dated .., registered under sections ppc at the instance of si sho of the police station chatorkhand district ghizer. the respondent filed a departmental appeal aga inst the said termination order before the aig headquarters, police. the appeal was dismissed vide order no. sp gzr -() dated .. the appellate authority. whereupon, the respondent approached the chief court gilgit -baltistan by filing a writ petition bearing no. for the redressal of his grievance. the petition was accepted vide .. with the direction that the writ petitioner be reinstated in service with back benefits for the period during which, he had not remained gainfully employed elsewhere. the a ppellant who were aggrieved of the order mentioned above moved this court in cpla no. which was disposed of in terms as follows: in view thereof, we without taking any exception to the order of chief court dispose of this petition with observation that the compet ent authority may, if so desire, initiate regular inquiry into the conduct of police official in accordance with law. disposed of. the respondent filed a civil miscellaneous appl ication for implementation of the .. the learned single -baltistan in writ petition no. page the afore -reffered petition was allowed by the chief court vide .. in terms as und er: the petitioner has been re -instated in response to the judgment of this court dated .., which was upheld by the supreme appellate court on .., but the respondent no. in violation of court order without allowing back benefits. this petition is di sposed of with the strict direction to the respondent no. for allowing back benefits to the petitioner as have been ordered by the court. petitioner can move afresh if deprived him after reasonable time. petition disposed of accordingly. file the petitioner feeling aggrieved assailed aforesaid .. in cpla no. before this court. arguing the case, the learned advocate general gilgit baltistan has submitted that the impugned ord er is against facts and record and that the he submitted further hat the matter of payment of back benefits was left to the discretion of competent authority and as suc h, learned chief court could not take up the matter and thereafter, direct the payment of back benefits. it has been argued further that the learned chief court exercised its jurisdiction illegally with material irregularity and the order has been passed ithout taking into consideration the actual controversy and as such the same is liable to be set aside. arguments heard and record perused. the trend and tenor of the .. mentioned above clearly reflects that the authority was only given the mandate to hold regular inquiry, if so desired. it nowhere dealt with postponement of payment of back benefits till conclusion of inquiry if so initiated against the respondent herein. in view of judgment menti oned supra, there page remains no room for doubt that the respondent is entitled to recover back benefits as per or ders of this court dated .. and no exception can be taken to it. we have perused impugned order very carefully and found no illegality at all which may require interference. upshort of the whole exercise is that the impugned order is in accordance with law and never calls for any interference. the petition is dismissed. leave refused. chief