page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. cpla no. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. faqir shah. cpla. provincial government others petitioner appellant. provincial government others faqir shah respondent leave to the impugned judgment decree dated .. the division bench chief court gilgit -baltistan whereby the learned has partially dismissed the judgment decree the land acquisition additional district for partially setting aside the impugned judgment order to the extent of rate of acquired land and may kindly be granted enhance rate of acquired land rs. per kanal to meet th ends of justice, law and equity. present: and for respondent in cpla no. advocate general gb for the respondent in cpla no. and for petitioner in cpla o. dated of hearing: --. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that in the year the valuable land of the petitioner and others persons have been acquired by page the res pondent no. i.e. the director education gilgit -baltistan for construction of high school in jalal -abad tehsil and district gilgit which was adjacent to the land of two others persons near main road. he further submitted that at the time of acquiring of land the revenue field staff assessed the price of the land of the petitioner and one syed muhamad hussain rs. per kanal whereas, the land at the adja cent land of one ghullam jan and ibrahim shah was assessed rs. ,, per kanal inspite the fact that all the lands are adjacent to each others and situated at the same plac have said potential value yet the price of the land of the petitioner was less assessed. he further submits that the petitioner has filed a reference under section of land acquisition act before the land acquisition judge, who consequently, pleased to grant relief to the petitioner partially and dismissed the reference. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the order of the learned land acquisi tion -baltistan on ... upon hearing the learned chief court gilgit baltistan vide impugned judgment .. in cfa no. granted partial relief to the petitioner to the exte nt of compound interest from the date of acquiring the land i.e. with effect from to till the date of possession i.e. and declined to enhance the rate of the land of the petitioner as prayed. the learned counsel for the petitioner also contends that the petitioner was also entitled to be paid the rate which has already been paid to the other lands owner adjacent to his land as such he has been page discriminated without showing any cause and reasons. finally he prayed that he may be compensated equal ly amongst the equals. on the other hand, the learned advocate general gb on behalf of the respondent no. to in the instant petition and a connected appeal no. cpla on behalf of the provincial government being petitioner contended that he impugned judgment the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan in cfa no. dated .. and the judgment passed in reference no. dated .. the refree judge, as both are illegal and unjustified and according to him, the same are liable to set aside. he further submits that in the year on the demand of the people of jalalabad a boys high school has been established at jalalabad tehsil and district gilgit. for this purpose the barren land kanals marlas of the petitioner was included as he gifted the same for school. provision of land for construction of school was undertaken by the school committee themselves with the demand that employment of grade in the school shall be given to the person who donat ed land for the school. he furth er added that the barren land measuring kanals arlas was provided by faqir shah as gifted to the school in collusion with the revenue field staff succeeded in including his name gifted barren property, in the award and after being paid compen sation, filed the reference petition under section of land acquisition act, for enhancement of rate of compensation. he contended that non of the persons whose land was included by the committee in the school construction raised no page objection against the award of the collector except the petitioner who despite of obtaining employment and compensation filed reference petition in the court against the award dated .., the same reference was partially accepted against which, he filed appeal in the chief court. in the impugned .. by modifying the judgment of referee court i.e. the compound interest be paid to the petitioner w.e.f. .. till .. instead of .. to ... we have heard both the learned counsels for the petitioner as well as the respondents, perused the record and gone through the impugned judgments of both the courts below. in our considered view the arguments advanced by the learned advocate general gb has force, as the petitioner namely faq ir shah donated land measuring (five) anals and (two) marlas from his barren land for the construction of school at jalalabad gilgit and in lieu thereof he was compensated as agreed by giving employment to him in grade in the said school. he further submitted that the petitioner in cpla no. and respondent in cpla no. subsequently, he manovered and succeeded with the collusion of revenue field staff obtained award and compensation thereto of his barren land admeasuring (four) kanals and (eleven) marlas rs. per kanal. in view of the above, both the petitions i.e. filed by the petitioner faqir shah and the civil petition no. filed by the provincial government etc are converted into appeals and page disposed of with the modification i.e. the impugned judgment in cfa dated .. the learned chief court gilgit baltistan to the extent of the compound interest payable to faqir shah petitioner respondent per annum with effect .. to .. (from the date of acquisition of land to the date of payment of award only) by agreeing with the judgment in reference petition no. dated .. the learned additional district both appeals are disposed of in the above terms with or no order to cost. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?