page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at gilgit. c.p.l.a no. mr. -ud-din, judge. mr., judge. hafiz -ur-rehman and another petitioner zia and others respondent leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order against the impunged --, the gilgit -baltistan chief court. present: malik shafqat wali sr.advocate for petitioner haji jamal khan advocate on record. date of hearing:- --. judgment: mr., --, the learned chie court gilgit -baltistan in writ petition no. whereby the learned division bench of the learned chief court has dismissed the writ petition and maintained the impugned order of additional district -- page in revision petition no. and --, the learned civil in suit no. the facts revealed from the leave to appeal are as such that the present respondent have filed a declaratory suit come possessi on before the civil and during the pendency of the same the present respondent submitted an application under order rule read with order rule () c.p.c. for amendment and impleading of party. the present petitio ners resisted the application but the learned trial the present petitioner being dis -satisfied with the order the learned trial court filed a revision petition before the learned additional district but the revision petition also got the same fate. then the petitioner availed writ jurisdiction of the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan, against the concurrent findings the learned civil and learned addition al district and filed to persuade the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan, to interfere with the impugned orders in exercise of its writ jurisdiction. hence this leave to appeal. we have gone through the concurrent fin dings of lower courts which in our opinion need not to be interfered, as all the impugned orders are in accordance with law, having no material irregularity. the courts have always taken a liberal view to allow applications under order rule and order rule () c.p.c. unless the same amendments sought, might change the nature of the suits or create new cause of action if allowed. in the instant case, the learned counsel for the petitioner failed to establish that the amendment sought in the application may create a new cause of action in the suit or it may change nature of the suit altogether. hence page the points raised by the learned counsel for petitioner are having devoid of substance, therefore, leave to appeal is refused accordingly. file. announced -- chief