page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. muhammad gul others respondents. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith deputy advocate for the petitioners. malik kifayat -ur-rehman advocate for respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this etition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil first appeal filed by the petitioner was dismissed by maintaining the .. the leaned land acquisition hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the deputy commissioner collector ghizer vide award bearing no. dk () -- dated .. had acquired kanals and marlas of land of the petitioner for the project of government boys inter college gupis. the revenue field staff prepared compensation page papers and on the recommendation of assistant commissioner gupis, the deputy commissioner collector ghizer fixed the compensation amount of the said acquired land at the rate of rs. (rupees seventy thousand only) per kanal alongwith compulsory acquisition charges. the respondent received the compensation under protest as the paid compensation was not fixed at prevailing market rates of lands of the respondents. being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award, the respondent filed civil suit reference no. in the court of learned land acquisition district per kanal to rs. per kanal with compound interest. the petitioner feeling aggrieved, filed civil first appeal no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was dismissed by maintaining the jud gment dated .. the leaned land acquisition district hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that the acquired land of the respondent was barren land and the compensation amount of s. per kanal paid to them was on the basis of said barren land. he also submits that notices under section of the land acquisition act, were issued to the respondent but no objection was raised from the respondent regarding the measure ment of the land and fixation of rates at that time. per page learned advocate general, the said land was barren, grassy and not cultivable, however, compensation was assessed as per cultivable rates keeping in view the cultivability of the land in future. the award was passed in due time and compensation was also paid accordingly. he submits that the learned land acquisition district per kanal to per anal alongwith compound interest per annum mere ly on the statement of pw -. he adds that the ora evidence of the persons was did not reside in the locality rather the land under sale deed is situated more than two () kilometers away from the suit land. he submits that the learned courts below fell in error while passing the impugned judgments, hen ce, the same are not sustainable. he prays that the concurrent findings of the learned courts below may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, malik kifayat -ur-rehman, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. he contends that the award bearing no. dk -() -- dated .. the deputy commissioner collector is against the mandatory provisions of the land acquisition act, he reiterates that he then district attorney had clearly admitted that the existing rates of compensation mentioned by the respondent in their application addressed to the collector are based on facts and ground realities as the existing compensation rates does not page compete with the rate prevail in the general market. he submits that the learned courts below have rightly passed the impugned judgments orders. he prays that the concurrent findings of the learned courts below may pleased be maintained being well reasoned and wel founded. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. in our considered view, the respondent being owners of the property could not be deprived of their right of compensation on their acquired land. it may suffice to observe that the learned courts below have recorded concurrent findings of facts on the basis of evidence on record. the learned chief court while concurring with the views taken by the learned land acquisition district reading of evidence. further, the learned advocate general also could not point out any infirmity or illegality in the wel reasoned impugned judgment the learned chief court, hence, interference into concurrent findings of the courts below is not warranted by this court. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is ismissed. consequently, the impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court and the judgment page dated .. in civil suit reference no. the learned land acquisition district the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.