page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. cpla. no. chief judge. judge. shukoor niaz sher ajab khan sher azam khan rustam khawaja mir sheraz khan muhammad hussain sher ajab residents of village summal tehsil gupis district ghizer. petitioner defendant abdul aziz alias gojur dado sumal district ghizer. plaintiff respondent. provincial govt. gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary, gilgit -baltistan. deputy commissioner district ghizer. petitioner for grant of leave to the judgment -- the -baltistan, whereby he accepted the partial revision petition no. of respondent no. and dismissed the partial revision petition no. of petitioners. for partially setting aside the impugned judgment -- by accepting the appeal of petitioner by graciously granting leave to appeal. present: advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of provincial government. advocate for petitioner defendants. dated of hearing: --. order .. his grant of leave to appeal is outcome of the facts that the present respondent no. filed suit no. before the learned civil -, by the competent authority bounded in the head note of page the plaint. he also claimed exclusive right of irrigation from ghinut spring the present petitioner opposed the suit before the learned trial court by filing their written statement with the contention that only wo fields of land measuring about kanals had been allotted to the plaintiff, but with that pretext, he encroached pasture of the village summal as khalsa sarkar measuring about kanals and he also claimed land owned and possessed by the defendant -, measuring about kanals. the defendant further denied the plea taken by the plaintiff about exclusive right of the irrigation from ghinut spring and stated their joint rights with the plaintiff over the said spring to irrigate their respective lan ds. the lower courts up to the court of learned district baltistan in appeal, wherein, the learned single hence, the instant grant leave to appeal before this court. we heard the learned counsel for the parties at considerable length. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan is also present on behalf of the responde nts no. and the learned counsel for the petitioner at the very outset of the arguments abandoned all other points raised in the petition but pressed the single point and urged that the respondent no. has encroached a huge chunk of the land measurin kanal belonging either to the inhabitants of village summal as shmilat -e-deh or to provincial government of gilgit -baltistan as khalsa -sarkar, while he was entitled to possess and owned two fields of land measuring about kanals by dint of the all otment order in his favour. the learned counsel stressed that since the learned single we carefully examined the above point ag itated by the learned counsel for the petitioner but the same could not persuade us as it has devoid of legal substance for the reasons that: page (a). the learned counsel for the petitioner himself concedes that no land of the petitioner has been encroac hed by the respondent no. as such the petitioner have no locus standee to ask the courts of law to make an order of ejectment of respondent no. from excess land, if any, in possession of the respondent no.. (b). the petitioner are defendant in the suit which has been filed by the respondent no. for restraining the present petitioner from interference into the land occupied by the respondent no. and no suit has been filed by the petitioner to get a decree of dispossession of the respondent no. from any land encroached by the defendant no. as such under law no decree of dispossession ejectment against the respondent no. in favour of the petitioner can be passed, even, if it is proved that the respondent no. is encroacher of the land. (c). it is evident from the version of the counsel for the petitioner that the alleged encroached land in possession of the respondent no. belongs either to the provincial government or to the inhabitants of the village summal and the petitioner are neit her representative of the people of the village nor they represent provincial government. the provincial government has been impleaded and arrayed in the lis of the defendant by the lear ned additional dist rict but government has not bothered to assail the impugned judgment decree before this court as such the petitioner have listed the provincial government as respondent and in the petition. the upshot of the above discussion is that the petitioner hopelessly failed to point ut any important legal aspect against the impugned judgment, hence, the grant of leave to appeal is refused. no order as to cost. chief