page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. mehdi floor mill through md respondent. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... order. this leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the operation of the letter no. () dated .. issued by the petitioner no. i.e. the deputy commissioner skardu was suspended on .. by this court as prayed for. the learned advocate general submits that the deputy commissioner skardu through the said impugned letter recommended requested to stop the wheat quota to the respondent mill til all the reservations of the general public are properly addressed. per learned advocate general the respondent has to adopt a legal course to redress his grievance in accordance with law in a proper forum court of law and instead to file the writ petitio page in the learned chief court which was not maintainable. he submits that the case pertains to grinding of flour by the respondent as per public demand and need. he contends that the petitioner no. i.e. the deputy commissioner skardu was constrained to i ssue the letter no. -() dated .. in circumstances to address the public demand on the recommendations of the assistant commissioner rondu. he submits that the learned chief court erroneously upset the said order which was issued in the interest of public at large. further the respondent was not an aggrieved party, hence, writ does not lie. he prays that in case the impugned .. the learned chief court is not set aside, the public at large shall come on road to protest against the mills authorities which will create law and order situation in the area. on the other hand, the learned coun sel for the respondent supports the impugned .. passed in writ petition no. by the learned chief court. he contends that there are more than thirty () villages in district rondu who have been supplied flour by the respondent mill. he also contends that all the people of the area are satisfied with the services of the respondent mi ll except few people of the locality. per learned counsel the noc was issued to the respondent from the petitioner on ... consequently, wheat quota i.e. fifty () bags of wheat on day basis keeping in view the need of the people were being supplie to the respondent. on .. on the page complaint of some ill minded people, the petitioner cancelled the said quota of the wheat apart from sealing the mill of the respondent without issuing notice to the respondent, hence, the respondent was condemned unheard. he further submits that the respondent was constrained to file writ petition no. in the learned chief court alongwith a civil misc. application for suspension of impugned administrative order issued by the petitioner no. i.e. the depu ty commissioner skardu which was allowed vide .., however, the writ petition is still pending adjudication in the learned chief court. per learned counsel the petitioner called in question the interim order of the learned chief court efore this apex court which was not maintainable as per practice and procedure rules of this court. according to the learned counsel for the petitioners, no interim order of the learned chief court can be challenged. he prays that the .. this court be re -called. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned interim .. learned chief court. admi ttedly, the main case is pending adjudication in the learned chief court. both the learned counsels for the respective parties are in agreement that this case may be referred back to the learned chief court so that the same be heard and decide in its own merits. page in view of the above discussions, without touching the merits of the case, we remand this case back to the learned chief court for hearing and deciding it in its own merit in accordance with law expeditiously within a period of two () week s, without being influenced by any of the observation (s) earlier made by the chief court its elf or by this court. the operation of the impugned .. shall remain stayed till disposal of writ petition no. by the learned chief court. the case is disposed off in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?