page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit chief chief election commissioner, gilgit -baltistan (office at river view road besides women degree collect gilgit) petitioner muhammad qadeer, currently serving as executive engineer at water power division, district ghizer azmat ali, currently posted as executive engineer at water power division nagar eng. riaz hussain, assistant executive engineer division ghanche respondent government of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary secretary water power, government of gilgit -baltistan .proforma respondent cpla no. azmat ali, currently posted as executive engineer (bs-) at water power division nagar petitioner government of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary secretary water power, government of gilgit -baltistan respondent cpla no. muhammad qadeer, currently serving as executive engineer (bs-) at water power division, district ghizer eng. riaz hussain, assistant executive engineer (e bs -) division ghanche page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) government of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary secretary water power, government of gilgit -baltistan respondent present for the petitioners: (cpla no. advocate in (cpla nos. for respondents: the advocate general, gilgit -baltistan alongwith secretary gilgit -baltistan for prov. govt. (for respondent proforma respondent (in all the above three cplas) advocate in (cpla nos. date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge:-through the instant civil petition for leave to appeal, present petitioner have called in question .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in writ petition nos. whereby, writ petition filed by present petitioner in cpla no. were dismissed. being aggrieved by the same judgment, cpla no. has been filed by chief election commissioner against certain remarks contained in the impugned judgment, though he was not party before the learned chief court. since all the above three cplas involve similar facts and common question of law, therefore through this single judgment, we intend to dispose of all the cplas. a. cpla (chief election commissioner gb muhammad qadeer others page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) while delivering the impugned judgment in writ petitions no. and the learned gilgit -baltistan chief recoded certain observations in paras from to against functions of chief election commissioner, gilgit -baltistan. for the sake of brevity, the same are reproduced herein below: it has been brought in our knowledge during the course of arguments that the chief election commissioner gilgit -baltistan is interfering unnecessarily in the internal affairs of departments and getting the posting transfer of government employees according to his own choice. it has further been brought in our kno wledge that the concerned secretaries are threatened that non -compliance of the orders of chief election commissioner will expose them to contempt of court laws. we want to make it very clear that the powers under contempt laws are not available to chief election commissioner except the matters related to interference disturbance in election matters. section of elections act, is reproduced hereunder for the purpose of ready reference:: .power to punish for contempt. ---the commission may exercis the same power as the high court to punish any person for contempt of court and the contempt of court ordinance, 9v of ), or any other law pertaining to contempt of court shall have effect accordingly as if reference therein to a court and to a respectively, to the commission and the commission or, as the case may be, a member of the commission although the election may exercise equal powers to a high court in mattes of contempt of court under section of elections act, yet it does not mean that the commission may pock its nose in the affairs of any department to subjugate it in order to lead for a desired output by hanging the sword of contempt over them in case of deviation from the directives of the commission irrespective of the fact whether the direction is made in good faith or to achieve personal goals. the referred section only pro vides powers of contempt of court to election commission in matters pertaining to election, and the chief election commissioner cannot travel beyond the specified circle of election process in matters of contempt of court under section of elections act, the purpose of section was to bound departments to assist the commission in election process without any excuse and page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) the federal government and provincial government are duty bound to provide staff and other requirements under the mandate of secti on ()()() of ibid act. section is reproduced as follows: assistance to the commission. ----() the commissioner or commission may require any person or authority to perform such functions or render such assistance for the purpose of this act as he or it may direct. (). it shall be the duty of all executive authorities in the federation and in the provinces to render such assistance to the commissioner and the commission in the discharge of his or its functions as may be required by the commissi oner or the commission. () the federal government and each provincial government shall make available to the commission such staff as it may require for the performance of its functions under this act. section of ibid act provides punishment of two years imprisonment or fine in case of violation of official duty in connection with election. the referred section is reproduced herein below: penalty for violation of official duty in connection with election. --- an election official or any other person on duty in connection with an election who is guilty of an offence under section section or section shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or with fine which may extend to one hundre thousand rupees or with both the chief secretary gilgit -baltistan is directed to ensure that in future the interference of chief election commissioner gilgit -baltistan in the internal affairs of departments must be strictly monitored. the chief secretary must inform all the secretaries under his subordination to be careful in future and not to obey any illegal order, either verbal or in writing, issued by the chief election commissioner gilgit -baltistan, except the election matters. all the secreta ries of gilgit -baltistan establishment shall submit a compliance report to the registrar of this court within days to the effect that no transfer postings of government employees will be carried out on the directions, consent or concurrence of chief election commissioner gilgit -baltistan, after receipt of this judgment:. page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) being aggrieved by above remarks recorded by the learned chief court in the impugned judgment, the chief election commissioner gilgit -baltistan has approached this court with cpla no. it may not be out of context to mention here that neither chief election commissioner was a party to the writ petitions before the learned chief court nor he was called in court and heard before passing of the impugned judgment. b. cpla no. (azmat ali others government of gilgit -baltistan another) in the above two cpla, the issue is with regard to frequent and constant postings transfers of petitioner from one station to another within a short span of time. the petitioner azmat ali, while performing his duties as executive engineer division gilgit, was transferred to district astore vide notification dated 5th november, after an interval of only days, he was again transferred from district astore to district nagar vide notification no. swp -admin -() dated 21st november, in pursuance of transfer notification, the petitioner assumed his ew office in division nagar inasmuch as shifted his family to nagar. with in one year, vide notification no. swp -admin () dated .., the petitioner was again transferred and posted at division district ghanche, meaning thereby that his transfer posting took place thrice in a year. c. cpla no. (muhammad qadeer others government of gilgit -baltistan another) same situation prevails with the cpla in hand as that of cpla no. the petitioner muhammad qadeer, while performing his duties as executive engineer division skardu wastransferred to district ghizer vide notification dated 5th november, .vide notification no. swp -admin -() dated ..,he was again transferred from district ghizer to district gilgit. the petitioner no. eng. riaz hussain was posted transferred as executive engineer (bs page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) to division kharmang on his own pay and scale vide notification dated 5th november, vide notification no. so(s) --() dated .., the petitioner was again transferred posted from division kharmang to chanche. in pursuance of notification, he assumed the charge as such. within days, respondent further transferred the petitioner from ghanche to nagar vide notification no. swp admin -() dated .. meaning thereby that within a short period of months, three transfers postings of petitioner took place. being aggrieved by frequent and constant transfers postings, present petitioner (except petitioner in cpla no. approached the learned chief court with writ petition no. and which after hearing, were dismissed through the impugned judgment. hence, the present petitioner have approached this cour with instant civil petitions for leave to appeals. the learned counsel for petitioner in cpla no. (chief election commissioner gilgit -baltistan) argued that the allegations, directions and remarks learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in the impugned judgment from paras no. and were arbitrary, one sided and ex -parte as the petitioner wa neither summoned in the court and heard nor any comments were sought or received from the petitioner, hence the impugned judgment was not sustainable in the eyes of law and was liable to be set aside on this score alone. it was next contended by learned counsel that impugned judgment pass ed by the learned chief court was against natural as such was not maintainable and liable to be set aside. learned counsel added that impugned judgment is against section and sub -section of section of elect ions act adopted extended to gilgit -baltistan and that the impugned judgment was also contrary to section of the elections act, hence the same being not maintainable in the eyes of law was liable to be set aside. the learned counsel further maintained that the learned chief court has no authority to restrain the election commission from exercising page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) its powers and authority for smooth conduct of free, fair transparent election sin the best public interest, whereas the impugned judgment restrained the petitioner election commissioner from his lawful duties, hence the impugned judgment was not maintainable and was liable to set aside on this score too. learned counsel next contended that the learned chief court without erification of information as to who had brought in knowledge of learned chief court that chief election commissioner interfered in internal affairs of govt. departments to get postings transfers of his own choice and went on to pass the impugned judgment, hence the same being mere assumptions of fact was not maintainable and liable to set aside. concluding his submissions, learned counsel prayed that the impugned judgment so passed may please be set aside to the extent of remarks pas sed against the petitioner in para no. and learned counsel for petitioner in cplas no. and respondent in cpla no. argued that the act of constant and frequent transfers of petitioner from one station to another by respondent was a clear violation of rules envisaged in civil servants act, and also against the instructions contained in the civil establishment code (estacode), however adjudicating upon the matter and delivering the impugned judgment, the learned chief court overlooked this legal position, hence the impugned judgment was not maintainable and was liable to be set aside on this score alone. it was next contended by learne counsel for petitioner that as held by the according to rule of the rules of business is three years, which has to be followed in the ordinar circumstances, unless for the reasons or exigencies of service a transfer before expiry of said period become necessary, while this fact was also ignored by the learned chief court, hence the impugned judgment was not sustainable and liable to set aside. the learned counsel maintained that as held by the compliance of any illegal and arbitrary order is neither binding nor valid in the eyes of law, hence notifications of constant page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) transfers postings of petitioner issued by respondent swere null and void, hence liable to set aside so is impugned judgment. concluding his submissions, learned counsel for petitioner submitted that impugned judgment the learned chief court being against the basic norms of vague, absurd, perverse and based on misconception of law and facts may please be set aside. we have heard arguments advanced by learned counsel for respective parties. with the able assistance of learned counsel for parties, we have also gone through record as well as the impugned judgment. the civil petitions for leave to appeals herein involve two legal questions to be determined by this court i.e. first frequent postings transfers of petitioner in cplas no. from one station to another within shortest period and secondly recording of adverse remarks contained in the impugned judgment against the petitioner in cpla no. (election commissioner ilgit-baltistan) by the learned chief court without being the election commission gb as to party to the case or without hearing it. we would like to take up first the question as to frequent successive postings transfers of petitioners. it is observed that transfers of civil servant should only be considered on the basis of convenience to the general public, betterment of the institution or in the interest of public good but unfortunately, this is being used as a tool of incentive and cha stisement. at times the officials are frequently transferred on the whims and caprices of politicians and other on the consideration of vested interests. we are, therefore, of the considered opinion that the civil servants at all levels must be given a mi nimum three -year fixed tenure in each post to encourage operational freedom within the precincts of rules and laws as the same would effectively deter outside influences from using transfers as a threatening weapon against the civil servants and will promo te professionalism, efficiency and good governance. the premature transfer and posting of an officer, when a provision with regard to the settled tenure is available in law rules directives of the government, the page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) same is not warranted under the law unless i is justifiable and required in the public interest. the reasons for such transfer must be recorded in writing which fell under the purview of judicial review. in absence of such reasons the order so made is declared by the superior courts of pakistan in various cases as nullity in the eyes of law. the supreme appellate court in a case titled syed mahmood akhtar naqvi v. federation of pakistan reported as pld has held asunder: when the ordinary tenure for a posting had been specified in the la or rules made thereunder, such tenure must be respected and could not be varied, except for compelling reasons, which should be recorded in writing and were judicially reviewable ---transfers of civil servants by political figures which were capricious an were based on considerations not in the public interest were not legally sustainable. in view of the above dictum of supreme court of pakistan it is held that as far as the question with regard to the successive posting transfer of the officers is concerned, the answer to the proposition in the plain meaning is a yes however, the same is to be tested on the principles of fair -play, justice, bona -fide and in the public interest coupled with the exigency of service as well as compelling circumstanc es. the competent authority can on the basis of above principles transfer an officer on administrative grounds but if the same is tainted with mala fideor any external influence or any other arbitrary reason or a reason contrary to the settled principles transfer posting, the same is void abi nitio. the supreme court of pakistan in a case tilted as muhammad ilyas khan v. senior member board of revenue, n.w.f.p, peshawar reported as plc(cs) has held as under: successive transfers of respondent to three stations within a span of eight months were against posting transfer policy of provincial government, which indicated that a government servant should not be transferred in ordinary circumstances, prior to compl etion of a period of three years at one place of posting ---transfer order of respondent was passed during ban period, prematurely under political influence, as copy of the same was sent to private secretary to provincial minister for page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) revenue ---tenure of po sting of an officer or official of government to a district government was provided in s.() of north -west frontier province local government ordinance, as three years but any officer could be transferred earlier due to exigency of service or in pu blic interest the right of employee such as dislocation or transfer is accepted only when the same transfer order is passed on extraneous consideration. however, this right is not having binding force internationally and the officers cannot claim it as a matter of right to remain posted at the desired place of posting. in case title state of u.p and ors. v. gobardhanlal d.b. singh v. d.k. shukla and thers reported as () scc, the supreme cou rt of india while allowing and maintaining the transfer order observed in paragraph no. as under: it is too late in the day for any government servant to contend that once appointed or posted in a particular place or position, he should continue in such place or position as long as he desires. transfer of an employee is not only an incident inherent in the terms of appointment but also implicit as an essential condition of service in the absence of any specific indication to the contra, in the law govern ing or conditions of service. unless the order of transfer is shown to be an outcome of a mala fide exercise of power or violative of any statutory provision (an act or rule) or an authority not competent to do so, an order of transfer cannot lig htly be interfered with as a matter of course or routine for any or every type of grievance sought to be made. even administrative guidelines for regulating transfers or containing transfer policies at best may afford an opportunity to the officer or serva nt concerned to approach their higher authorities for redress but cannot have the consequence of depriving or denying the competent authority to transfer a particular officer servant to any place in public interest and as is found necessitated by exigencie of service as long as the official status is not affected adversely and there is no infraction of any career prospects such as seniority, scale of pay and secured emoluments. this court has often reiterated that the order of transfer made even in transgr ession of administrative guidelines cannot also be interfered with, as they do not confer any legally enforceable rights, unless, as noticed supra, shown to be vitiated by mala fides or is made in violation of any statutory provision. page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) there is no cavil to the proposition that the competent authority under the rules law of an organization is fully empowered to transfer post any of his subordinate to any place of posting in the interest of institution as well as in public interest on admi nistrative grounds. we are, therefore, of the considered opinion that when an order of posting transfer the authority is passed on completing the normal tenure of posting available under the relevant rules, no mala fide can be annotated to such rders. the supreme court of pakistan in a case titled as ehsan elahi cheema secretary health, reported as scmr has held as under: posting and transfer being prerogative of employer, no vested right was created in favour of civil servant claim that he should be posted at one station unless any rule had created any right in him to remain posted at one station or had debarred administration from transferring him on same suffered from mala fides ---order of transfer of civil servant made for administrative reasons, could not be said to have suffered from mala fides particularly when he had already remained posted for more than eight years much above the normal tenure of posting of three years at a station under the rules similarly, the supreme court of india has observe similar observation and in a case titled gujrat electricity board anr. vatmaramsungomalposhani reported in air sc as under: transfer of a government servant appointed to a particular cadre of transferabl posts from one place to the other is an incident of service. no government servant or employee of public undertaking has legal tight for being posted at any particular place. transfer from one place to other is generally a condition of service and the em ployee has no choice in the matter. transfer from one place to other is necessary in public interest and efficienc in the public administration conversely, when the posting transfer orders of a civil servant are being issued successively, without assign ing and recording any cogent reason in disregard and departure to the settled principle of tenure period, the same is neither justified nor defensible in the eyes of law. such practice can be page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) attributed and tainted with arbitrary exercise of powers by the authority. the supreme court of pakistan in case title secretary, education department, lahore v. nasim akhtar reported as scmr has held as under: civil servants were generally permitted to complete their normal tenure in case of transfer from one place to another civil servant had earlier been posted as district education officer vide --, therefore, uprooting of civil servant from such post vide --, was deviation from such normal procedure for which even easons were not assigned ---order of transfer, thus, smacked of arbitrariness ---service tribunal had acted justly and properly under circumstances of case, warranting no interference --- leave to appeal was refused in circumstances the juxtaposition of the above case law is that the court, in exercise of its power of judicial review, is empowered to examine the executive authority with regard to the frequent posting and transfers of the civil servants when the same is tainted with mala fide or any other cons ideration other than the public interest or the exigency of service. the supreme court of pakistan in case reported as scmr has held as under: when a transfer is made contrary to the relevant rules and against the public interest and without a llowing the officer to complete his tenure, the court is empowered to examine such administrative action by applying the principle of judicial review similarly when the transfers are made in the public interest and not influenced with any superfluous consideration, the court has no right to disturb such order and shall not interfere in the matter. the supreme court of pakistan in a case titled sher muha mmad v. khurshidjehan begum reported as scmr has held as under: that transfer order was made for administrative reasons in public interest and not for extraneous considerations --- employee was liable to be transferred anywhere in exigencies of service, having no vested right of his choice for a specific place ---employee, additionally, had continued to serve for page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) period of about years before his transfer was ordered --- employee, therefore, could not plead that he was prematurely transferred ---employee was not holding tenure post, therefore, his transfer from place "q" to "l" was not violative of principles laid down for transfer of employees now we come to address the arguments of the learned counsel for the petitioner in cpla no. with regard to the passing of remarks by the chief court.there is an inveterate rule, based on a basic maxim of jurisprudence and is being observed by the superior court in the world. the maxim audialterampartem is the basic structure of the modern desig of the process of administration of in criminal as well as civil administration of justice, is considered a foul. no one can be condemned unheard and the same is recognized as a basic fundamental right of every citizen of pakistan. the remark so the chief court would reflect upon the functioning and working of the concerned. this might cause incureable loss to one reputation etc. the superior courts in pakistan have repeatedly recognized this right and volume of case law is available on the subject. one case law, in the case titled government of khyber pakhtunkhwa v. muhammad khurshid reported as for convenience is reproduced hereunder: any proceeding arising out of equity could not be decided without providing opportunity of hearing ---court ought to follow the principle of 'audialterampartem' and 'due process' which were basis of administration of justice, especially when any order, if passed, might affect the rights of the enti ty not party to the proceedings passing of remarks against a statutory functionary in a lis where such person is not a party to the lis is undesired and miscarriage of justice. the principle of judicial retrain must be applied in such matters for the reason that such atter would not only harm the concerned person but the institutions will also suffer which would ultimately result in lack of trust in general public. the courts, therefore, must remain very vigilant and must apply their judicious mind in such circumstance rather running their page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) horses on their desires. the supreme court of pakistan in a case titled amanullah khan federal government of pakistan reported as pld sc held as under: no adverse comments are to be made against a statutory functionary unless it is impleaded as a party in the proceedings or appears as a witness in the proceedings such practice is disliked in all sort of cases. in a case titled lda v. imram tawana, reported as scmr the supreme court observed that such remarks undoubtedly caused reputational damage; that the temptation to adopt such a course must be avoided except in the rarest of rare cases, and even then the reasons for making such remarks mus be carefully and clearly stated; that the disparaging remarks in the present case had been made by the high court without a word of explanation as to what occasioned them ---supreme court directed that disparaging remarks in question contained in impugned judgment of the high court should be expunged the abdul wahid abbasi reported as scmr held as under: appellate or revisional court should be very careful in passing remarks in respect of the conduct of the officer specifically when he was not given opportunity of hearing as far as the question with regard to power to election commissioner is concerned, a ll the authorities are required to assist the chief election commissioner in performance of his function under the elections act, section of the ibid act provides as under: assistance to the commission. () the commissioner or the commission may require any person or authority to perform such functions or render such assistance for the purposes of this act as he or it may direct. page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) the power of chief election commissioner with regard to transfer posting of officer is provided under section ()(f) of the act which provides as under: prohibition of announcement of development schemes. no government functionary or elected representative including a local government functionary or elected representat ive, shall announce any development scheme for a constituency after the announcement of the election programme of that constituency. () the caretaker government shall not (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) transfer public officials un less it is considered expedient and after approval of the commission; and (g) the plain reading of above provision clearly declares the mandate of chief election commissioner with regard to the transfer posting of the public officials and no deviation can be made to this provision. the supreme court of pakistan in case titled khawaj a muhammad asif federation of pakistan reported as pld sc has held as under: caretaker government was required to perform its functions to attend to the day -to-day matters, which were necessary to run the affairs of the state and also to watch the national interests, etc. ---caretaker government had to exercise its powers for a limited purpose, providing assistance to the election commission in organizing free, fair, honest and just elections in the country this court on .. had set aside all the notification as well as the impugned judgment. the said order is reproduced as under: .. the learned counsel for the parties have been heard at some length. civil misc. applications nos. filed for suspension of operation of the page page of (chef election commissioner m. qadeer others) impugned judgment are allowed. in consequence whereof, the operation of the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in writ petition nos. and is suspended till the next date of hearing. the transfer posting orders of xen and assistant executive engineer are also suspended and they are restored to their original place of postings. foregoing in view, we convert the above cpla no. into appeals and the same are allowed. the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in writ petitions no. is set aside. the disputed notifications of postings transfers to the extent of petitioner namely, azmat ali, executive engineer (bs-), muhammad qadeer, executive engineer (bs-) and eng. riaz hussain, executive engineer on his own pay scale (aee bs -) are set aside. the impugned remarks recorded by the learned chief court in the impugned judgment in paras and are also set aside expunged. these were the reasons of our short .. which his reproduced below: case heard and record perused. for the reasons to be recorded later, we convert the above cplas no. into appeals and the same are allowed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in w.p. no. is set aside chief (yes no