page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. ali afsar others. petitioners. ali rehmat son of shafayo esident of masoot tehsil sikande rabad district hunza nagar. respondent. present:- ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. ur-rehman advocate and -on- record for the respondent. date of hearing: .. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan whereby the said civil revision filed by the respondent was accepted by setting aside the impugned .. the learned additi onal sessions the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the impugned order filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard today. page briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent filed a declaratory suit in the court of learned civil on .., during pendency of he said civil suit, the parties affected a compromise deed out of the court. they submitted the same compromise deed is filed in the learned trial court. consequently, the statements of the respective parties were recorded by the court and the compromise decree was passed on .. accordingly. as per said compromise decree, the petitioner were declared the owners of the disputed immoveable property alongwith the structure and machinery etc subject to payment of rs. to the petitioner within months i.e. in the month of june or on 6th july it was also part of the decree that in case the petitioner failed to pay the amount within the stipulated time to the petitioners, the property in questions shall go into the ownership of the respondent. later on, the respondent filed an execution petition no. on .. contending therein that the petitioner failed to pay the deecret al amount to him within the stipulated time as such he was entitled to get back the possession of the property in question as per compromise decree dated ... the petitioner pleaded that they presented the said amount to the respondent in the month of may, but the respondent refused to receive the same. consequently, the petitioner approached the learned trial court and deposited the amount in question on ... upon hearing, the learned trial court directed the tehsildar to deliver the page possession of the property in question to the respondent vide ... the petitioner being aggrieved filed cfa no. in the learned court of district .. by setting aside the order of the learned executing court which was made impugned before the learned revisional court by the respondent. upon hearing, the learned chief court was pleased to allow the revision petition of the respondent, hence, this leav to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the amount was presented to the respondent in the month of may, in line with the compromise decree of the learned trial court but he refused to receive the same. whereafter the petitioner deposited the said amount in the learned executing court on .. which is still ying in the court. he submits that the learned executing court fell in error in accepting the executing petition of the respondent whereas the learned first appellate court has rightly allowed the objections of the petitioner but the same was set aside by the learned chief court through its impugned order which is not sustainable. on the other hand, the learned counsels for the respondent support the impugned .. in civil revision no. pa ssed by the learned chief court being well reasoned and well founded. they pray that that said impugned page order the learned chief court may graciously be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court as well as the orders judgments of the co urts below. the perusal of the record of the case transpires that the bone of contention between the respective parties was the payment of the deecretal amount of rs. within stipulated time i.e. on or before the .. as the decree was passed on ... the petitioner failed to pay the amount in question to the respondent within the prescribed time. admittedly the petitioner deposited the said amount in the court on .. after delay of one month ten () days after filing of the execution petition on ... the petitioner has failed to make out case in his favour. the learned chief court has rightly accepted the revision petition of the respondent which in our considered view is sustainable. further more, the learned counsel for the petitioner failed to point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned order the learned chief court, hence, no interference is warranted into it by this court. in view of the above discussions, we convert his petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court is affirmed. page the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.