page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit wazir shakil ahmed, judge (in chamber) cpla no. (against the .., the gb service tribunal, gilgit in service appeal no. syed khalid hussain syed ibrahim shah account assistant bps gilgit -baltistan population welfare department posted at gupis district ghizer (petitioner government of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan, gilgit secretary health population government of gilgit baltistan director population jutial gilgit secretary services government of gilgit -baltistan, gilgit secretary finance government of gilgit -baltistan, gilgit (respondents altaf hussain, superintendent bps- population welfare office pia lin road, gilgit noor muhammad superintendent bps-, population welfare office khaplu distric t, ghanche muhammad shafique, superintendent bps population welfare office hameed garh skardu akhtar hussain superintend ent bps -, direc torate of population welfare jutial, gilgit shafiullah superintendent bps population welfare office, chilas district diamer musa karim superintendent bps directorate of population welfare jutial, gilgit (proforma respondent cpla no. (against the .., the gb service tribunal, gilgit in service appeal no. page government of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan, gilgit secretary health population government of gilgit baltistan director population jutial gilgit secretary services government of gilgit -baltistan, gilgit secretary finance government of gilgit -baltistan, gilgit (petitioners syed khalid hussain syed ibrahim shah account a ssistant bps gilgit -baltistan population welfare department posted at gupis district ghizer (respondent altaf hussain, superintendent bps population welfare office pia lin road, gilgit noor muhammad superintendent bps -, population welfare office khaplu district, ghanche muhammad shafique, superintendent bps population welfare office hameed garh skardu akhtar hussain superintendent bps -, directorate of population welfare jutial, gilgit shafiullah superintendent bps population welfare office, chilas district diamer musa karim superintendent bps directorate of population welfare jutial, gilgit (proforma respondent cpla no. (against the .., the gb service tribunal, gilgit in service app eal no. sajid hussain ghulam hussain account assistant bps gilgit -baltistan population department posted at skardu district skardu (petitioner government of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan, gilgit secretary health population government of gilgit baltistan director population jutial gilgit secretary services government of gilgit -baltistan, gilgit page secretary finance government of gilgit -baltistan, gilgit (respondents altaf hussain, superintendent ps- population welfare office pia lin road, gilgit noor muhammad superintendent bps -, population welfare office khaplu district, ghanche muhammad shafique, superintendent bps population welfare office hameedgarh skardu akhtar hussain superintendent bps-, directorate of population welfare jutial, gilgit shafiullah superintendent bps population welfare office, chilas district diamer musa karim superintendent bps directorate of population welfare jutial, gilgit (proforma respondent cpla no. government of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan, gilgit secretary health population government of gilgit baltistan director population jutial gilgit secretary services government of gilgit -baltistan, gilgit secretary finance government of gilgit -baltistan, gilgit (petitioners sajid hussain ghulam hussain, account assistant population welfare department posted at skardu district skardu (respondent) altaf hussain, superintendent bps population welfare office pia lin road, gilgit noor muhammad superintendent bps -, population welfare office khaplu district, ghanche muhammad shafique, superintendent bps population welfare office hameedgarh skardu akhtar hussain superintendent bps -, directorate of population welfare jutial, gilgit shafiullah superintendent bps population welfare office, chilas district diamer musa karim superintendent bps directorate of population welfare jutial, gilgit (proforma respondent page cpla u no. (against the .., the gb service tribunal, gilgit in service appeal no. government of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan, gilgit secretary health population government of gilgit baltistan director population jutial gilgit secretary services government of gilgit -baltistan, gilgit secretary finance government of gilgit -baltistan, gilgit altaf hussain, superintendent bps population welfare office pia lin road, gilgit noor muhammad superintendent bps -, population welfare office khaplu district, ghanche muhammad shafique, superintendent bps population welfare office hameed garh skardu akhtar hussain superintendent bps -, directorate of population welfare gilgit shafiullah superintendent bps population welfare office, chilas district diamer musa karim superintendent bps directorate of population welfare jutial, gilgit (petitioners farhan ahmed iftikhar ahmed, account assistant population welfare department posted at gilgit district gilgit (respondent present: for the petitioner in c.misc. no. in cpla u no. cpla no. cpla no. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan. for the petitioner in cpla no. respondent in c.misc. no. in cpla u no. .. page judgment wazir shakil ahmed, therefore, through this single judgment, i intend to dispose of the above titled petitions directed against the impugned judgments dated .. and .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal in service appeals no. and brief facts leading to institution of the cplas no. are that petitioner sajid hussain and syed khalid hussain, were appointed as assi stant accountants (bps -) in population welfare department gilgit -baltistan in the year alongwith the respondent nos. to while the respondent no. to were appointed as assistant accountants (bps -) in the year and respecti vely. the respondent (population welfare department gilgit -baltistan upgraded the posts of respondent no. to from bps to and further redesignated those posts as superintendent (bps -) but the department did not consider upgradation of posts of the petitioners. to this effect, the above incumbents claim to have submitted departmental appeals to the competent authority, but the same remained not responded. being aggrieved, petitioner approached the gilgit -baltistan service tribunal for redressal of their grievances. the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal partially accepted the service appeals filed by the petitioners. for the sake of brevity, operative part of the impugned judgments the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal in their respective service appeals are reproduced herein below: in service appeal no. in the light of what, has been discussed abov e, this instant service appeal is hereby accepted subject page to the condition that the appellant will not be entitled for any back benefits from the date of upgradation rede signation. however, seniority of the appellant shall be counted from the ate of upgradation redes ignation other six batch mates of the appellant where his standing falls in the combined seniority. in service appeal no. in the light of what, has been discussed above, this instant service appeal is hereby accepted subject to the condition tha the appellant will not be entitled for any back benefits from the date of upgradation rede signation. however, seniority of the appellant shall be counted form the ate of upgradation redes ignation of other six batch mates of the appellant where his sta nding falls in the combined seniority. both the parties felt aggrieved and dissatisf ied with the impugned judgment the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal and approached this court by filing cplas no. of by the petitioner sajid hussain and syed khalid hussain) and cplas no. of by the respondent (the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan). advocate, the learned counsel for the petitioner argued that in the year the population welfare department gilgit -baltistan adv ertised posts of accounts assistants (bps-) on contract basis, wherein the petitioner applied and qualified. in consequence of their being qualified in the test interview and upon recom mendations of dpc, vide office order no. dpw-() apt dated .., the petitioner were appointed as assistant accountant (bps-) on regular basis alongwith respondent no. to while the respondent no., were adjusted regularized against the post of assistant accountants (bps-) in the year and respectively which showed that both the petitioner page were batch -mate of respondent no. to as such stood senior to respondent no. to it was next contended by the learned counsel that despite the fact narrated above, the posts of respondent no. to were upgraded from bps to and further their posts were redesignated as superintendent bps -, while both the petitioner ar still working as such, which is a clear discrimination and injustice to them. he finally prayed that the order of the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal may kindly be modifi ed by granting all back benefit to the petitioners. on the other hand the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan vehemently opposed the contentions made by the learned counsel for the petitioner and argued that petitioner in cpla no. and were not extended the benefit upgradation an redesignation in line with the respondent no. to on the ground that the petitioner were appointed as assistant accountants in reproductive health service which is jus a component unit of population welfare department gilgit -baltistan. it was next argued by the learned advocate general, gilgit baltistan that respondent no. to were appointed as assistant accountants bps-) in district welfare department gilgit -baltistan and directorates of population welfare gilgit -baltistan, hence, the posts of respondent no. to were upgraded re -designated. at the conclusion of his arguments, the learned advocate general, gilgit baltistan submitted that since the gilgit -baltistan service tribunal failed to consider the factual and lega position involved in the inst ant cases and went on to pass the impugned judgment, hence the judgment so passed was liable to be set aside. page cpla u no. brief facts leading to filing the instant cpla are that in the year the respondent (farhan ahmed, assistant accountant), was appointed as assistant accountant on contract basis and his services were regularized on ... meanwhile, the provincial government upgraded and redesignated the posts of the petitioner no. to and did not consider case of the respondent for upgradation redesignation in the same analogy wherein the petitioner nos. to were upgraded and redesignated, he also approached the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal with the service appeal no. claiming upgradation promotion and redesignation in line with his other counterparts from the date of regularization of his service. the learned gilgit baltistan service trib unal, after hearing the parties, accepted the service appeal in to and directed the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan to upgrade redesignate the post of the respondent with effect from .. with all back benefits. the operative part of the impugned judgment is reproduced below: for the reasons discussed above the instant service appeal is hereby accepted and respondent no. to are directed to up grade re -designate the post appellant from accountant bs -e-f -- and further up -grade re -designate the said post of accountant bs to superintendent bs e-f -- with all back benefits. the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan, who was party to the service appeal as respondent before the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal, aggrieved by the impugned judgment and approached this court by way of institution of cpla u no. page the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan argues that the in the year the respondent was appointed as assistant accountant (bs -) on contract basis under prime minister package, which extended from time to time and in the year his services were regularized in reproductive health service as assistant accountant (bs it was further contended by him that if th post of respondent is upgraded and redesignated as directed by the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal, he will stand senior to the said petitioner no. to the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan next argued that the impugned judgment was not sustainable as the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal failed to take into consideration material fact that in case the post of respondent is upgraded by re designation, he will stand senior to petitioner no. to on the ground that services of respondent were regularized in the while petitioner no. to were appointed in the years and at the conclusion of his submission, the learned ag prayed for setting aside the impugned judgment. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supported the impugned judgment and argued that posts of all assistant accountant in population welfare department gilgit -baltistan were upgraded and redesignated except the posts of assistant acco untants who were posted in rhs. he argued that the act on the part of official petitioner is a clear discrimination amongst equally placed persons and also against the fundamental right of the respondent. it was next contented by the learned counsel for the respondent that the up-gradation and re -designation of post held by respondent would have no adverse effect to the seniority of the pe titioners no. to hence prays for upholding maintaining the impugned judgment. page i have heard and considered arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties and also perused the case files and impugned judgment minutely. from perusal of record it is manifest that petitioners, in cpla no. and were appointed as assistan accountants (bps-) on the same date and recommendation of same dsc alongwith the respondent no. to while the respondent no. to were appointed in the year respectively. it is observed that in view of carrying of same date of appointment recommendations of same dsc, both present petitioner are batch -mates of the respondent no. to as such, stood senior to respondent no. to despite this fact, population department upgraded and redesignated only respondent nos. to and left over the petitioner for extending the benefits of upgradation merely on the ground that the present petitioner were employee of rhs. the ground take and reasons assigned by the official petitioner for not considering the present petitioner for upgradation and redesignation are not sustainable as perusal of record revealed that rhs being headed by the same director and secretary is a component unit of population welfare department gb and is not a separate department. it is astonishingly observed that being employees of the same department, how the present petitioner were not considered for upgradation redesignation of their posts by population depar tment on the inexcusable ground that they are posted in rhs department. the act of provincial government in exercise of its power failed to deal with the similar cases in similar way and tended to discrimination amongst equally placed person. the super ior courts of pakistan are very much clear in this regard and have been issuing necessary page directive to the public functionaries to avoid discrimination and making unreasonable classifications amongst equal segment of employees. in order to strength en my this view, i would like to lend some support from a judgment of the .a sharwani others govt. of pakistan through secretary finance division islamabad others scmr wherein the that equal protection of law does not envisage that every citizen is to be treated alike in all circumstances, but it contemplates that persons similarly situated or similarly placed are to be treated alike. it would not be out of context to mention here that the public functionaries are bound by the law to exercise their authority exactly in accordance with the mandate given to them by the relevant law rules and do not chose resort to any action which would cause to discriminat ion and violation of fundamental rights of each government employee. the provisions of general clauses act, are very much clear about setting instructions and guidelines to the public functionaries for dealing with cases brought to them by the government employees for redressal of their grievances. for the sake of brevity, relevant section of general clauses act is reproduced herein below: 24a. exercise of power under enactments. (). where by or under any enactment, a power to make any order to give any direction is conferred on any authority, office or person such power shall be exercised reasonably, fairly, justly and for the advancement of the purpose of the enactment perusal of the contents of the above section of the general clauses acts makes it abundantly clear that public functionaries are duty bound to decide applications grievances of citizen without fear, favour, page nepotism, with reasons, within reasonable time and without discrimination now i would like to come to the case of farhan ahmed, respondent in cpla u no. from perusal of record, it is manifest that his services were regularized on .. as assistant accountant (bps-) under prime minister assistant packag e. through the impugned judgment, the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal directed that the respondent be upgraded from .. and redesignated from ... therefore, the question of seniority of the present respondent over the petitioner no. to does not arise because the petitioner nos. to being appointed upgraded prior to and redesignated on ., could not be come junior to the present respondent. in view of the position explained herein above, the institution of the cpla in hand by the present petitioner does not serve any purpose. this court has regretfully noted that in similar cases having similar grievances contained in service appeals filed by syed khalid hussain, sajid hussain and farhan ahmed, the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal delivered two different judgments. the service appeal filed by respondent farhan ahmed was accepted strictly in terms as prayed for by the respondent while the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal resorted to partially accept service appeal filed by sajid hussain and syed khalid khalid hussain, which is against the principle of consistency as well as discrimination amongst the same set of employees. foregoing in view, cpla no. and are converted into appeals and the same are allowed. .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal in service appeal no s. page stands modified to the extent that upgradation and redesignation of posts held by the petitioner in the above cplas shall be granted from the date(s) when the posts of respondent no. to were upgraded redesignated with all back benefits. in view of my above observations, leave in cplas no. and cpla u no. is refused. as a result, impugned .. of gilgit -baltistan service tribunal passed in service appeal no. stands maintained. the answering respondent are directed to deal with the seniority of all incumbents as per the relevant aw rules. announced .. (yes no