page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, registry branch skardu. cpla no. ibrahim others petitioners. provincial govt others respondents. present: ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner were the owners of the land measuring kanals marlas situated at mouza sadpara dam area at skardu. he also submits that the land in question was acquired by the respondent no. for the construction of sadpara dam in the year he further submits that the respondent no. has prepared the award no. dk -() in this regard on .. and an amount of rs. ,, has been paid to the petitioner in the year as the land was acquired in the year per learned counsel the compound interest has not been paid to the petitioner with effect from to the petitioner being aggrieved oved various applications to the respondent but all in vain. consequently the petitioner were constrained to file the suit for page declaration etc. which upon hearing was dismissed vide .. by the learned senior civil lat er on both the petitioner and respondent filed writ petitions before the learned chief court which upon hearing were disposed off through common .. by remanding back the case to the learned trial court. he contends that the learned trial court has no jurisdiction to entertain such cases and the case was wrongly remanded back to the learned trial court, hence, the impugned judgment is liable to be set aside. we have heard the leaned counsel for the petitioner at considerable ength, perused the record of the case and gone through the impugned .. passed in writ petition no. admittedly, factual controversy involved in this case with regard to the title of the suit land, compensation and compound in terest thereto etc which has to be resolve determined by the competent forum court of law after recording of evidence in support of the claims of the respective parties. in such cases writ petition is not maintainable. the learned counsel for the petitio ners could not point out any illegality, irregularity and infirmity in the page impugned judgment the learned chief court and no interference is warranted. in view of the above discussions, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. the leave is refused accordingly. the leave is refused in above terms. chief judge. judge.