page page of (darwesh others syed arbaz ul hassan and others in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit chief (against the .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in civil revision no. darwesh, ali haider, sons of baqar, residents of guru juglote, tehsil danyore, district gilgit petitioner syed arbaz ul hassan syed rehan ali shah syeda tehdiya hassan syed rehan ul hassan house no. muhallah westridge no. rawalpindi cantt, tehsil district rawalpindi syeda naumana hassan wd syed rehan ul hassan house no. muhallah westridge no. rawalpindi cantt, tehsil district rawalpindi the deputy commissioner gilgit the assistant commissioner tehsil danyore the tehsildar, tehsil danyore girdawar, halqa patwari guru juglote tehsil office danyore gilgit respondent pre sent: for the petitioners: advocate date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: this civil leave to appeal arises out of the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in ivil revision no. whereby the civil revision filed by the present petitioner was dismissed and the concurrent judgm ent orders of the learned lower courts were maintained. page page of (darwesh others syed arbaz ul hassan and others brief facts giving rise for institution of the instant civil leave to appeal are that the present petitioner filed a civil suit for declaration and permanent injunction before the learned civil alongwith the suit, an application under order rule cpc was also filed for grant of temporary injunction. the application under order rules cpc was dismissed by the learned trial court on ... this order judgment was not challenged by the present petitioner and attained finality. the present petitioner filed another application under order rule cpc before the learned vacation civil gilgit and wer successful to obtain stay order on ... when learned vacation civil the learned vacation ... this judgment order of the learned vacation civil .f.a. no. the learned first appellate court, after hearing the parties, dismissed the c.f.a. no. and maintained .. the learned vacation civil judge. the present petitioner impugned the judgment the learned first appellate court before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court by means of civil revision no. which was also dismissed on .. and concurrent judgments orders of the courts below were maintained. this judgment of the learned chief court has now been impugned before this court by way of the instant civil leave to appeal. perusal of record and circumstances prevailing with the instant civil petition fo leave to appeal reveals that one question of law is involved for determination and decision by this court. the question is whether when the present petitioner already availing legal remedy before the courts law by filing of an application under order rule could invoke jurisdiction of another court for redressal of the same grievance? in page page of (darwesh others syed arbaz ul hassan and others view of legal position, the question can safely be answered in negative because the present petitioner in their first round of litigation had filed application under order rule cpc for grant of temporary injunction which was dismissed by the learned trial court. then by suppressing and concealing this fact, the present petitioner filed another application before the learned vacation civil judge. the learned vacation civil under the principle of resjudicata, no issue can be agitated twice befor the same forum or another forum by suppressing and concealing the facts regarding earlier decision of the issue except availing the remedy against the first decision in appellate jurisdiction of another court provided under the law. this principle is con templated in section cpc which is reproduced below: res judic ata: no court shall try any suit or issue in which the matter directly or substantially in issue has been directly and substantially in issue in a former suit between the same parties or between the parties under whom they or any of them claim, litigating under the same title, in a court competent to try such subsequent suit or the suit in which such issue has been subsequently raised, and has been heard and finally decided by such court. the bahawalpur scm has been pleased to hold as under: the petitioner filed writ petition no. -r of to obtain a direction for the re -verification of their entitlement which was dismissed by the high court on the ground that on the same allegations the earlier writ petition and the review petition were dismissed and that it found no reason to entertain this writ the same rel ief in another case reported as muhammad saleem rashid ahmed scmr the page page of (darwesh others syed arbaz ul hassan and others there are concurrent findings of fact that the issue raised by the petitioner in relation to the suit -land had been finally heard and decided by a competent court of law and, thus, issue raised in the subsequent suit was hit by the principle of res judicata within the contemplation of section c.p.c. in view of the above factual and legal position, it is observed that the petitioner has already availed the legal remedy by way of filing of application under order rule before the learned trial court in the first round of litigation which was dismissed by the learned trial court. against the dismissal order, the petitioner did not file any appeal before the appellate forum, thus the order attained finality. filing of a fresh application before the learned vacation civil upon attaining finality by the order of learned trial court and non -filing of any that order, the matter stood settled between the parties hence, once a matter is settled between the parties, it could not be reopened for adjudication afresh which is against the spirit of law. the petitioner has not come to the court with clean hands therefore; on this score as well he does not deserve any relief from this court. for what has been discussed above, we do not find any illegality or infirmity in the impugned judgment. therefore, leave in the above cpla under objection no. is refused. the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in civil revision no. is maintained. these were the reasons for our short .., which are reproduced below: the learned counsel for the petitioner has been heard at some length. for the reasons to be recorded later, this cpla is dismissed being devoid of merit and legal force chief (yes no