page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan branch registry skardu syed arshad hussain shah, cj wazir shakil ahmed, (against the .., the gb chief court, gilgit in writ petition no. and order passed in review petition no. muhammad ilyas haji ali manthokha tehsil district kharmang (petitioner provincial government gilgit -baltistan through the chief secretary, gilgit secretary education gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. secretary finance, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit director education, baltistan region, skardu deputy director education kharmang (respondents present: for the respondents: the prosecutor general gilgit baltistan, on behalf of advocate general gilgit -baltistan. for the petitioner: date of hearing: .. judgment wazir shakil ahmed, through this leave to appeal filed under order of supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan, rules read with article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order the petitioner has called in question the judgment order the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court dated .. passed in writ petition no. and .. passed in page review petition no. whereby, the writ petition as well as the review petition were negated. as per record of the case, the petitioner was initially appointed as teacher on contract basis, later on, his services were regularized vide ffice order bearing no.de -(b)- () dated ... the petitioner was kept on performing his duties the satisfaction of his superiors and during course of which, he was posted transferred to number of stations between the year to it is al so an admitted fact that the etitioner was receiving his salary alongwith his allied allowances regularl till 1st august, when the answering respondent without prior notice stopped his salary on the ground that salaries of all the teachers have been withheld as when the scrutiny of their credentials were being ascertained, it was found that the post held by the petitioner was missing in he nis, which resulted into the stoppage the pay of the petitioner. the petitioner filed number of representations applications to the answering respondent to get redressed his grievances but in vain and he was forced to file writ petition against the education department, the same was dismissed vide judgment .., which is reproduced here under: this petition has been preferred under article () of gilgit -baltistan (e mpowerment self governance) order, read with article of constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan for release of the salary of the petitioner. page the learned counsel for the petitioner contended that the petitioner initially was appointed as teacher on contract basis the year and later on his service was regularized in bps- as m.t teacher vide office order no. de(b) () dated .. and he accordingly draw salary as government servant but abruptly in the month of august the respondent stopped his salary on the pretext that nis against the post was not issued, hence this petition. we have considered the matter very carefully keeping in view the nature of the case and came to the conclusion that since the petitioner is government servant as such he may redress his grievance by filing an appeal before the proper forum instead of invoking writ jurisdiction of this court. the instant petition is, therefore, dismissed in limine. the petitioner, however, would be at liberty to file an appeal service tribunal if he so advised. file. to the utmost dissatisfaction of the petitioner with the above judgment order, the petitioner filed a review petition, which also met the same fate and the learned chief court was pleased to dismiss the same in limine, hence the petitioner filed a cpla no. before this court. after hearing the parties, this court vide .., dismissed the same. thereafter, the etitioner preferred a civil review petition bearing no. in cpla no. which was accepted and this court vide 20.., allow ed the aforementioned civil review petition and restored the cpla no. on its original position. heard. the record of the case file also perused, which transpires that vide ffice .., the petitioner page was appointed as contract teacher in primary school manthokha at the fixed pay rs. per month. the services of the petitioner was duly regularized as m.t teacher in bps against a vacant post in primary school manthokha with effect from .., vide office order bearing no. de -(b)- () and the petitioner duly submitted his joining report as regular m.t teacher bps -, on ...nothing to further mention here that, alongwith the joining report, the medical fitness certificate, issued by the competent authority which is attached in original to support his first pay bill. the case file also contains a last pay certificate issued by the headmaster high school kharmang dated .., whereby, it has been certified that the pet itioner was erving in middle school kinderk kharmang( hard area), wherein, al the particulars i.e basic pay, hra, conveyance allowance, med. allowance, ad. r. allow. ad. r. allow. ad.r. allow, ad. r. allow and hill allow etc, and the net pay payable to the peti tioner was also mention ed as rs. -. there is also a certificate dated .., issued by the in-charge primary school oq madupur, vide which, it is certified that the petitioner is performing his duties as m.t bps regularly till then and his performance as regular teacher was shown to be ex cellent and satisfactory. the law officer appearing on behalf of the provincial government has rightly and frankly admitted that incumbents page of the education department of the same subject matters of kharmang distric has been restored in their services, whose pays were also withheld on the basis of non -inclusion in nis and the government had to pay fair amount of money on account of back benefits. it is also a hard fact that the answering respondent did not challenge the orders of dismiss al of writ petition before this co urt as the learned chief court has disposed of the said writ petition on the sole ground that the peti tioner being a regular appointee sho uld avail remedy rom the proper forum i.e the gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. ha the answering respondent any doubt in their minds about the regular service of the petitioner, they should have challenged the order of dismissal in writ petition on above ground before this court, meaning thereby he respondent are still on right assumption that the petitioner was actually a permanent regular employee of the education department. in the circumstance, no fruitful purpose shall be served by get ting the petitioner dragg ed before the gilgit baltistan service tribunal, just for ge tting withheld sal ary. admittedly there is no sign of any order pertaining to discontinuation the service of the petitioner from teacher as mt. bps- till date. as has discussed above, the only flimsy ground, on which the salary of the petitioner has been stopped was said to be page the non -inclusion of the post of the petitioner in the nis, resulting which the petitioner was thrown out from his long term of services w.e.f to which is nothing else than to deprive the petitioner from the veste right accrued to him and which has been protected under constitution of the country as well as in the relevant provision of the prevailing gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, in the light of what has been tated above, this petition is hereby converted into an appeal and accepted by setting aside the impugned judgments orders of the learned chief court dated .. passed in writ petition no. and .. passed in civil review petition no. the respondent are directed to reinstate the service of the petitioner from the date when his salary was stopped. i.e .. and release the pay of the petitioner with effect from .. forthwith, however, the period from the date of discontinued i. e... to .., shall be deemed to be leave without pay. the secretary education gilgit -baltistan shall furnish the compliance report within days from passing of this order. announced .. chief page