page in the supreme appel late court, gilgit -baltistan gilgit (appellate jurisdiction) cpla no. chief judge. judge. muhammad ajab khan muhammad hazir khan harkush tehsil gupis, district ghizer. petitioner faizullah haji jan mulla gul akhori, district ghizer. abdul jabbar qayyum harkush presently resident of main bazar gupis, near assistant commissioner office, gupis. respondent leave appeal under article () of gi lgit-baltistan (empowerment and sel governance) order, against the judgment .. the chief court gilgit baltistan in civil isc. no. whereby the eview petition of th petitioner has been dismissed and the judgment .. passed in civil 1st appeal no. and judgment decree the civil were upheld. for sett ing aside the impugn ed judgment .. and .. of chief court gilgit baltistan and judgme nt decree dated .. the civil gupis yasin. present: muhammad hussain shehzad advocate for the petitioner. mir ikhlaq hussain, advocate for the respondents. date of hearing: .. judgment rana muhammad arshad khan, cj: this petition by way of special leave to appeal is preferred against the judgment page .. the le arned hief court gilgit -baltistan in civil first appeal no. and .. passed in review petition no. whereby the judgment of the learned trial court was upheld. the fact in brief as borne out from the record giving rise to file the instant petition are that the petitioner instituted a civil suit bearing no. in the court of civil gupis yasin on .. while claiming damage on account of malicious prosecution to the tune of rs. ,, (rupees ten lac only). it was disclosed in the plaint that the respondent having their hands in gloves got a criminal case registered against the present petitioner vide fir no. dated .. under offences of the offence of zina (enfor cement of hu dood) ordinance, read with section ppc, at the instance of bahadar wali with police station gupis, district ghizer alleg ing therein that the petitioner while armed with deadly weapon, tried to abduct the aughter of the respondent no. mst. hoor bibi and also extended the threats of dire consequences. during the investigation, another fir no. for an offence under section of the arms ordinance, was also registered against the petitioner. the investigation of both the ca ses was carried out by the police officer and on the conclusion of the investigation and by conforming codal formalities, the petitioner was sent to judicial lockup and he faced the trial which ultimately culminated into his acquittal by the judicial magis trate 1st class gupis yasin vide order ... it was set out in the plaint that the alleged occurrence had never taken place and the petition er was roped in the aforesaid firs on account of malice. it was pleaded further that the page petiti oner was a respectable pensioner of pakistan army and the prosecution at the hands of respondent caused him mental agony and torture beside forcing him to suffer monitory loss and also lowered his image and dignity to the estimation in the society. the etails of expenses, which the petitioner allegedly suffered on account of alleged malicious prosecution, were also given in the plaint. on the contrary, the respondent controverted the claim of the petitioner up to tooth and claw by raising preliminary bjection s. besides that, he also refuted the claim of the petitioner by maintaining that the fir was registered against the petitioner as the occurrence actually had taken place and that during the course of trial, through an exercise of influence, won ove the pws who had resiled from their statement during the course of trial and the petitioner ultimately paved the way for smooth acquittal of him. while taking in consideration, divergent pleadings of the parties, the learned trial court framed as many as issues including relief. the learned trial court, there after, directed the parties to adduce their respective evidence. hence, after recording the evidence for and against, concluded the trial and vide judgment and decree dated .. dismissed the suit of the petitioners. the petitioner while feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied called in question the judgment decree supra before the chief court gilgit -baltistan by filing a civil first appeal. however, the same was also dismissed vide .. the petitioner assailed aforesaid order in review petition filed before the same court which was also dismissed vide ... now, the orders of the learned division bench of the chief court, gilgit page baltistan and the judgment and dec ree the learned trial court have been challenged before this court. arguing the case, learned counsel for the petitioner submitted with full vehemence that the impugned order the courts below are merely replica of conjecture and surmis es, as the courts below failed to appreciate the evidence on record and also ignored the law on the subje ct. it is added that the first a ppellate court altogether adopted a novel style of disposal of the civil first appeal which resulted in grave miscarriage of justice. the learned counsel submitted further that the judgment and decree the learned trial court is also based on misreading and non -reading of material evidence and as such the same are not sustainable at law. conversely, learned counsel for the respondent has controverted the submission made by the learned counsel for the petitioner and supported the impugned judgment order the learned court below. we have heard the learned counsel of the parties very patiently and have gone through the record with their help and examined the same thoroughly. before dil ating upon the merits of the case, we deem it appropriate to refer to the impugned .. the first appellate court which reads as under: heard on preliminaries. counsel for the appellant could not be able to point out any cogent reasons, needing consideration in appeal, the refore, the appeal disposed of in limine. page at the very outset, it is to be seen as to whether th order of the appellate court alls within the ambit of the definition of a judgment judgment has been defined in section of the code of civil proce dure which reads as under: (). "judgment" means the statement given by the it implies from the above that the judgment means judici al decision of a court or judge, need not necessarily deal with all matter in issue in a suit but may determine only tho se issues, decision of which has the effect of adjudicating all matters in controversy resulting into final disposal of lis. the very essential element of the judgment is that there should be statement of grou nds of decision and not recapitulate of arguments of the parties. it must show evolution of evidence led by both the parties and conscious effort of courts to reach a certain conclusion. the most important ingredient of a valid judgment is reasons or grou nds for decision because validity of the judgment in higher forums is to be seen from reasoning and same is to be challenged by the aggrieved party is to attack reasoning of judgment in appeal and not the narration of the facts. in the in hand case, the ain hub of the claim of the suiter is that he occasioned the loss to his reputation which has lowered down in the estimation of public. the law, in this connection, provides two remedies, one is a heavy cost and the other one is damages for malicious prose cution. the award of cost, successful party is not barred to file a suit for damages for malicious prosecution. in the recent innovation, the law has took a new turn that the cost incurred on litigation in a suit, it can be claimed by a separate suit after decision of the lis in which cost is page alleged to have been incurred. the suitor in the main case could furnish the bill of the cost or the court could grant the damages persuaded by exemplary cost but it has to be seen on the basis of assessment of the evidence and the stance taken by the courts below. acquittal and honorable acquittal carries no different meaning but if something has been rendered in judgment that the accused suffered prosecution as he suffered rigorous trial on account of malice or ill ill, all the more, it can strengthen the case of the suiter, yet, the independent evidence brought on record to dislodge the finding cannot be ignored altogether. civil court can command however, his is not the proper stage to comment upon the veracity of the stance taken by either of the parties, lest it may prejudice the merits of the case of either party before the courts below. the conclusion arrived at by the court may not be binding without reasoning, therefore, the court insist that even in ex -parte judgment, reasoning should be given very clearly. there is another aspect of the case in hand and the matter can be looked from a nother angle namely that it is cardinal principle of the reasoning is also necessary to satisfy the most important principle of dispensation of justice. the court acts with mat erial irregularity and illegality, if fails to record reason in support of its decision. in such a situation, if the reasoning is missing, it can hardly fell within purview of the definition of judgment. the accumulative effect of section (), order xx, rule would be that decision by a court to be termed as a judgment must be based on reasoning and failure to comply with the requirement of the page provision of law, would render the judgme nt nullity and unsustainable. it is not the trial court alone which is required under the law to give reasons for its just conclusion, even appellate court is also bound to give detailed reasoning in support of every judgment. order xli rule clearly mandates that judgment of the appellate court should be in writing and sh all state: i. the points for determination. ii. the decision thereon. iii. the reasons for decision. iv. where the decree applied from is reversed or varied, the relief which the appellant is entitle. it is thus abundantly clear that the court, whether it is trial court or appellate court, is saddled with duty to give reason in support of its judgment. august supreme court of pakistan in case of raja muhammad afzal v. ch. altaf hussa in and others scmr observed as under: 'judgment has been defined in section clause () of the civil procedure code as 'judgment' means the statement given by the and order has been defined in clause of the same section as 'formal expression of any decis ion of a civil court which is not a decree'. further, order xx, rule sub -rule () prescribes that judgment of courts other than the court of a small causes 'shall contain a concise statement of the case, the points for determination, the decision thereo n, and the reasons for such decision'. reference may also conveniently be made to the ca se of mst. fatima v. khuda bax and others pld (west pakistan) lahore wherein their lordship observed as under: .order xx, rule c. p. c. prov ides that judgments of courts other than a court of small causes shall contain a concise statement of the case, the points for determination, the decision thereon and the reasons for such decision. similarly order xli, rule c. p. c. page provides that a jud gment of the appellate court shall state "(a) the points for determination; (b) the decision thereon; and (c) reasons for the decision." the reasons for the decision on the points involved in the determination of an appeal must be based on the evidence on the record and the provisions of law applicable to them. reference may also be conveniently ade to case of muhammad saddiq v. syed ali shah and another (pld lah. ). the relevant part reads as follows: the earned counsel for the arties ave appeared and they agree that in the absence of the detailed order the short orders cannot be said to have disposed of the suits. i have also considered this matter on legal plane. it is well-settled that when a civil he acts with material illegality and irregularity in the exercise of jurisdiction vested in him by law. see muhammad arif and others, v. muhammad ishaq and another a i lah. in mollah ejahar ali v. government of east pakistan and others where the order was "the application is rejected as there is no substance in it", the supreme court observed that: "there is no doubt that the high court's order which is unfortunately purfunctory gives the impression of a hasty off -hand decision which, although found to be correct in its result, is most deficient in its context. if a summary order of rejection can be made in such terms, there is no reason why a similar order of acceptance saying, `there is considerable substance in the petition which is accepted', should not be equally blessed. this will reduce the whole judicial process to authoritarian decrees without the need for logic and, reasoning which have always been the traditional pillars of judici al pronouncements investing them with their primary excellence of propriety and judicial balance. litigants who bring their disputes to the law courts with the incidental hardships and expenses involved. do expect a patient and a judicious treatment of the ir cases and their determination by proper orders. a judicial order must be a speaking order manifesting by itself that the court has applied its, mind to the resolution of page the issues involved for their proper adjudi cation. the ultimate result may be reac hed by a laborious effort but if the final order does not bear an imprint of that effort and on the contrary discloses arbitrariness of thought and action, the feeling with its painful results, that when the order of a lower court contains no reasons, the appellate court is deprived of the benefit of the views of the lower court and is unable to appreciate the processes by which the decision has been reached." the same is the law con tained in order xx read with section of the code of civil procedure. in the face of the aforesaid legal position, i hold that the learned civil as a matter of fact, even if the short order is a judgment or a part of a judgment, then it is incomplete.as its corresponding part, which was to be separately written, was not written a all. the short orders or judgments on the peculiar facts and circumstances of these cases are thus not well -sustained and are a nullity. yet in another judgment gouranga mohan sikdar v. the controller of import and export and others pld sc ), the apex court noticed this type of order with anguish that high court while disposing of petition or case, raising substantial question of law and facts must pass a speaking judicial order manifesting by itself that court applied its mind to issue invol ved. lis dismissed by a short order referred as there is no substance in it was strongly deprecated. the relevant portion of illustrious judgment reads as under: these objections apply with equal force to the case before us. in view of the fact that a substantial question was raised by the applicant invoking the writ jurisdiction of the high court it was, as observed by munir cj. the undoubted duty of the high court to state what the precise point raised by the applicant was and the grounds on which i was rejected to the same effect are the observation of this court in the case of ejahar ali v. government of east pakistan a nd others wherein identical single entence order had been made. this court was at pain to point out that a judicial order mus be a speaking order manifesting by itself that page the court has applied its mind to the resolution of the issues involved for their proper adjudication" in any event, therefore, the position which springs out from the precedent case law is that disposal cases through arbitrary exercise of power without application of judicious mind is least permissible at law and this tendency, high time needs to be discouraged. even if some lawyers defending the cause of liti gant public as his client, showe not a prop er performance in rendering assistance to the court, the high court and subordinate judiciary is not absolved of duties to apply the same law on the basis of factual matrix or marshalling facts. we have noticed that the the disposal of cases i slip shod manner is totally unwarranted by law. for the reasons given above, this petition is converted into appeal and the sa me is allowed. the judgment orders dated .. and .. the learned division bench of the chief court are not sustainable, the se judgment orders being not sustainable at law are set aside and the case is remitted to the chief court ith the direction to decide the matter afresh in accordanc with law as enumerated herein above. chief