page page of (prov. govt. akhtar ali others in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan, gilgit chief (against .. the gb service tribunal in service appeal no. govt. of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gilgit baltistan secretary finance gilgit -baltistan secretary education gilgit -baltistan accountant general (agpr), gilgit -baltistan petitioner akhtar ali khan muzaffar ali khan tgt bps district gilgit latif ahmed ibrahim khan tgt bps district gilgit naeem ud din saqib naib shah oriental teacher (ot) bs- resident of gilgit respondent present: for the petitioners: the advocate general gilgit baltistan date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: this judgment shall dispose of the above civil leave to appeal directed against .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal, gilgit whereby service appeal no. filed by the respondent was accepted. the respondent in the present petition called in question the acts of the petitioner in respect of deduction of conveyance allowances from their salaries for the winter and summer acations. the conveyance allowance was deducted page page of (prov. govt. akhtar ali others on the pretext th at the teachers across gilgit -baltistan were not required to perform duties and were not required to undertake journey from home to school and back to home during winter and summer vacations as such they were not entitled to avail the facility of conveyance allowance. the said allowance, at par with other provinces of pakistan, was granted to the govt. employees of gilgit -baltistan through a notification no. fin -a-() dated .. this allowance, after some time, was discontinued by the office of accountant general, gilgit -baltistan to the teachers during winter and summer vacations, allegedly on the advice of finance department, gilgit -baltistan. the respondents, who are teachers of gilgit -baltistan, approached the learned service tribu nal with prayers to declare them entitled to the said allowance for whole year at par with other government employees of gilgit -baltistan. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal, as an interim relief, refrained the petitioner from deducting the con veyance allowances from the salaries of the teachers for winter and summer vacations and finally through the impugned judgment held the teachers entitled to the said allowance for the whole year, which has been impugned by way of the above civil petition or leave to appeal. the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan contended that the learned service tribunal erred to interpret the notification whereby only working employees were held entitled for conveyance allowance, who either worked within the municipal area or used to undertake journey travel from home to office and back to home. he next argued that the learned service tribunal failed to advert to the position that as per spirit of the said notification the teachers did not go to page page of (prov. govt. akhtar ali others school for teaching purpose during the winter and summer vacations, they were not entitled to the conveyance allowance. he next argued that conveyance itself connotes to undertake travel and in absence of undertaking travel by an employee during off days owing to closure of schools it did not apply to the respondents. he next argued that similar situation prevailed in sindh provin ce where the said allowance was not made applicable to teachers for they did not undertake travel to office during these vacations. the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan contended that the judgment of the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal is based on surmises and conjecture and is passed while departing from the facts of the case and law on the subject, therefore is liable to be set aside. arguments advanced by the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan heard. the ecord as well as the impugned judgment is also perused. we have also gone through the notification which led to discontinuation of conveyance allo wance to the respondents. before going into details of the case, we consider it apt to discuss the notification dated .. under which conveyance allowance was granted to respondents. pursuance to declaration of gilgit city as big city by the prime minister of pakistan, notification no. fin.a -() dated .. was issued by the government of gilgit baltistan. the same is reproduced hereunder for better understanding: no. fin-a() government of gilgit -baltistan gilgit -baltistan secretariat finance department gilgit dated the 18th october, page page of (prov. govt. akhtar ali others notification the prime minister of pakistan has been pleased to declare gilgit ad big city vide prime minister secretariat, islamabad letter no. pspm for the purpose of house rent allowance and conveyance allowance with the following terms and conditions: i) the territorial areas of municipal committee gilgit for the purpose of big city will be from newly constructed bab-e-gilgit jutial to basin rcc bridge and agriculture complex near kiu to sakarkoi gilgit. ii) the big city allowance (hra conveyance allowance) would be admissible to the employees working within the territorial municipal limits of the city. iii) house rent allowance would be admissible with immediate effect. as regard conveyance allowance it has been made admissible irrespective of place of posting w.e.f. 1st july, vide finance division u.o. no. f.() dated 20th august, iv) employees working outside the municipal limits of the city and drawing at from any office department situated within the municipal limit would not be entitled to avail the facility of hra. v) employees working within the municipal limits and drawing ay from any office department situated outside of municipal limjts would be entitled to the grant of hra. the expenditure involved therein will be met out from sanctioned budget grant -general public services, -transfers (inter government), provinces under demand for the financial year mansoor alam deputy secretary (admin) through the above notification, certain conditions were laid down with regard to applicability or otherwise of house rent allowance and conveyance allowance to the employees page page of (prov. govt. akhtar ali others working within the municipal area. nowhere in the notification it wa mentioned that employees who did not undertake travel or stay at homes during the winter and summer vacations would not be entitled to conveyance allowance. but the government of gilgit -baltistan started deducting the conveyance allowances from the salaries of teachers by misinterpr eting the said notification. the government also failed to bring on record before the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal any such notification(s) which could have been issued earlier to this notification with regard to deduction of conveyance allowance of teachers during winter and summer vacations. interestingly, no specific order(s) to the effect of discontinuation of the said allowances to teachers was brought on record either before the learned service tribunal or before this court. in absence of any specific orders notific ations regarding deduction of conveyance allowances from the salaries of the teachers, deduct ion of the said allowance by the concerned authorities manifested that this was done just to hurt a segment of employees for the reasons best known to the authorities who did it. the learned law officer failed to produce any order (s) notification (s) of government justifying deduction of the conveyance allowance from the sala ries of the respondent before the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal, rather he took a plea that the appellant (now respondents) were not required to go to school during the winter and summer vacations hence they were not entitled to the said allo wance and tried to equate the leave with vacations. it is to be noted that vacations are not optional for the employees teachers rather the vacations were observed under the orders of higher authorities of government thus could not be equated with leave for depriving them from the conveyance allowance. page page of (prov. govt. akhtar ali others the conveyance allowance was granted to all the government employees and no condition was placed that during vacation co nveyance allowance shall not be paid. while granting the conveyance allowance, the executive authority of the country has not made classification of the employees for applicability of this allowance, hence the public functionaries are not permitted to make unreasonable classification of employees for reducing or extending the benefit of the conveyance allowance. the act of discontinuing the conveyance allowance to the teachers of gilgit -baltistan on the part of the concerned departments is held to be violative of legal right of employees depriving them from the vested financial benefits of the said employees. a similar issue came up be fore august supreme court of aj and the court decided the matter in favour of employees of education department. the ase is titled finance department of azad government of the state of jammu kashmir mehboob ahmed awan reported as plc (cs) the relevant paragraph is reproduced below; the controversy involved in the matter is, as to whether during the summer winter vacations, the respondents, herein, who are admittedly serving in different government schools colleges, where these vacations are observed, are entitled to conveyance allowa nce during these vacations? a perusal of the above reproduced rule and the note appended therewith sufficiently suggest that vacation cannot be treated as leave and teaching staff would be deemed as on duty, therefore, conveyance allowance cannot be refuse deducted from their emoluments without amendment in the rules through some executive order page page of (prov. govt. akhtar ali others now the question arises that if the relevant ule of leave and vacation prevalent in education department of gb is pari materia with th at of aj then the above interpretation would hold equally good for gb. the relevant rule was rule -a of aj civil servants revised leave rules there is no pari materia rule in rules applicable in gb i.e. revised rules but the relevant rul es on the subject are of revised rules which lay down that only during leave certain allowances shall be discontinued. there is no mention of deduction of allowances during vacation. secondly in the above -mentioned judgment the term duty is defined in rule -a which includes vacation. though in revised rules of the term duty is not defined but all government servants are presumed to be on duty during vacation and even leave that is why they are paid salary during leave and vacation. if the interpretation of petitioner herein is accepted then no government servant shall be entitled to pay during vacation as he would not be on duty during vacation. in fact, if a government intends to deprive any servant of any part of pay and allowanc es then some express rule shall have to be framed like rule mentioned above. it is now an established jurisprudence that even a statute be given beneficial interpretation if enacted for the benefit of a particular class in case of more than one possible interpretation. in this respect we borrow support from the following judgment of august supreme court of pakistan. sindh employees social security institution messrs. spenser company limited reported as plc the relevant para is reproduced below for ready reference. we may also refer to the judgment of this court in the case of shaheen airport services page page of (prov. govt. akhtar ali others v. sindh employees social security institution scmr ), wherein it has been held that while construing a beneficial enactment, the court can take into consideration the objects for which it was enacted and the mischief which it intended to suppress and if two possible constructions of a provision of such a statute are possible; one which favours the class of persons for whose benefit the statute has been enacted would be favoured in view of what has been discussed observed above, we hold that the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal, on the basis of facts and law, arrived to a fair and just conclusion. no illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment is found which could call for interference of this court. consequently, leave in the case is refused. the impugned .. the lear ned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal in service appeal no. is maintained with the direction to the petitioner to comply with it in its true spirit. the above were reasons for our short .. which is reproduced below: the learned advocate general, gilgit baltistan has been heard. for the reasons to be recorded later, the above cpla no. being devoid of merit, is dismissed chief (yes no