page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cpla no. kirmin social welfare and development organization through: ahmed faraz son of ghulam ahmed shah (president) and others petitioners. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan others respondents. present: -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... order. this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. passed in writ petition no. by the learned chief court whereby the said writ petition filed by the petitione rs was dismissed being devoid of any merit whatsoever, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that his clients filed the writ petition in the learned chief court contending therein that the respondent may graciously be directed to implement the development scheme (adp with the titled up gradati on of class dispensary at kirmin chupurson gojal it was also prayed in the writ petition in question that the respondent may kindly be restrained to shift the said development scheme to another village other than kirmin chuperson. per learned advocat e-on-record, the writ petition in question was dismissed by the learned chief court declaring the same devoid of page any merit with the observations that the said writ petition falls under the mischief of laches. he contends that the learned chief court fell in error while dismissing the writ petition which is not sustainable in law. we have heard the advocate -on-record for the petitioner at length, perused the materials on record and gone through the impugn ed judgment the learned chief court. the perusal of the record makes it evident that the development scheme titled construction of bed hospital at chupurson gojal was approved in the year consequently, the administrative approval of th said development scheme was issued after completing all the codal formalities from the quartered concerned. the learned advocate -on-record for the petitioner could not point out any infirmity illegality in the well reasoned impugned judgment the learned chief court, hence, no interference is warranted into it. consequently, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. the leave is accordingly refused. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge.