page page of (prov. govt. mehboob hussain 5in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit chief (against the .. the gilgit baltistan chief court, gilgit in c.f.a no s., govt. of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gilgit baltistan secretary education gilgit -baltistan director education gilgit -baltistan petitioner mehboob hussain matam shah a lecturer it project member boys campus, gilgit at present it system administrator kiu bps gilgit respondent vice chancellor kiu gb, gilgit registrar kiu, gb gilgit proforma respondent present: for the petitioners: the advocate general gb d.d. legal education department, gilgit for respondent: present in person for proforma respondents: deputy attorney general for pakistan, gb registrar kiu gb date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: through this judgment, we intend to dispose of the above civil leave to appeal (under objection no. directed against .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, gilgit whereby civil first appeal no. filed by the present respondent was accepted page page of (prov. govt. mehboob hussain while civil first appeal no. filed by the present petitioner alongwith civil first appeal no. filed by the proforma respondent was dismissed. brief facts leading to institution of the lis in hand are that the present respondent was employed by education department gb as a- i.t lecturer on contract basis i nitially for a period of year, extendable for further period. after appointment on cont ract, he was posted in postgraduate college gilgit where he continued his services as such. subsequently, under a decision taken in a meeting between the stakeholders, this project was handed over to karakorum international university where the respondent performed his duties till his permanent appointment as system administrator in kiu. the present respondent claimed that after transferring the project to kiu by educat ion department, gb, he was not paid his salary for a period of months owing to creeping up of a dispute over the budget between kiu and education department. he further claimed that he was assured of extension of his contract for further period and it was on this basis assurance hope that he performed his duties under the project. he further claimed that even otherwise, as per the advertisement, he was required to perform his duties as a i.t. lecturer till completion of the project life i.e., the respondent claimed to have submitted applications for release of his salary, but his requests were not entertained. being aggrieved, the present respondent ins tituted a civil uit before the learned trial court for recover of his outstanding pay and allowances (rs. ,) for the relevant period. after adjudicating upon the suit, the learned trial court partially decreed the suit for a sum of rs. against the page page of (prov. govt. mehboob hussain petitioners. being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the partial decree, all the above parties moved the learned gilgit baltistan chief court with their respective civil first appeals. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court through a common judgment, allowed appeal of the present respondent and dismissed the civil first appeals of the present petitioner and proforma respondents, which has now been impugned by the petitioner before this court by way of the above civil leave to appeal. the learned advocate general, alongwith the deputy director legal, education department, gb appearing on behalf of the petitioner argued that the learned gilgit baltistan chief court failed to appreciate the fact that the present respondent was no more a contract employee of education department after .., hence there did not arise a question of payment of salary to the present respondent for the period claimed for. they next submitted that no further extension in contract period was granted to the respondent after .. as such, he could not claim payment of salary from the education department, gb, while the learned courts below did not take into consideration this core issue and went on to pass the decree judgment basing them on ambiguo us, vague and flimsy grounds. the learned advocate general, gb contended that the learned courts below failed to discuss the issues so framed besides the issue of limitation raised by the petitioners. at the conclusion of his arguments, the learned ag, gb prayed that the judgments decrees the learned courts below being against the facts, grounds and law are liable to be set aside. before we discuss the factual and legal issues involved in the case in hand, we would like to mention here page page of (prov. govt. mehboob hussain that the parties, particularly the authorities of education department kiu, were given chances for amicable settlement of the issue out of the court, but despite of giving chances on wo dates, the parties failed reaching to an amicable settlement and su bmitted a report to this effect. now we come to merits of the case. performance of duty by the respondent till transfer of project to kiu and thereafter till his permanent appointment in kiu as system administrator is not disputed. two issues were there to be thrashed out for decision first, extension of contract period of respondent by education department and secondly responsibility of payment of salary to the respondent after transfer of project to kiu. it is to be noted that prio to transfer, the project was being handled under the administrative and financial control of education department, gilgit -baltistan. it is evident that the project was transfer red to kiu w.e.f. 16th may, but the record available on file does not contain a written agreement and settlement of administrative financial affairs of the said project as to whether it was the responsibility of kiu or education department, gilgit -baltistan. the minutes of meeting a ttached with the file in hand only states that the project will be handed over to karakorum international university for its sustainability nowhere in the said minutes of meeting it was clarified that who se responsibility would it be to provide budget for meeting the expenditure in connection with the said i.t. centre which was subsumed with kiu. in addition to above, it was within the knowledge of the education department; gilgit -baltistan that without having extension of contract period, the respondent was rendering his services in the i.t. centre, and if it was to be page page of (prov. govt. mehboob hussain so, the education department, gilgit -baltistan should have restrained the respondent from rendering his services to the said i.t. centre. but contrarily, there is nothing on reco rd to substantiate that education department gilgit -baltistan had done so rather, for the reasons best known to education department, it allowed the respondent to continue his services. even after transfer of the project to kiu, the education department did not intimate the kiu authorities regarding non -extension of contract period of the respondent. apart from the above facts, there is no record on file which could show that the kiu authorities had undertaken to pay the salaries of the said i.t. ce ntre or any correspondence with hec qua provision of budget for this i.t. centre. though it is the claim of the education department gb that hec was requested for provision of budget for this i.t. centre. but what happened next as to sanction of budget and placement of same at the disposal of kiu. thus, observe that in absence of any document which could fix responsibility of salary of i.t. centre on kiu, the responsibility lies on the shoulders of the education department to pay outstanding salary to th respondent. the only agreement (minutes of meeting) which was relied upon did not contain any such responsibility required to be discharged by kiu. even otherwise, it is morally and ethically not suitable for the education dep t. and kiu authorities to play with the respondent, who being attached to a respectable profession of teaching, and are made to suffer at the hands of two departments for no fault of his. it is clarified that in view of non -denial of performances of duties the respondent, his salary could not be stopped for the duties rendered by him. denial of salary against the duty done is page page of (prov. govt. mehboob hussain against the islamic injunctions besides falling it within the ambit of forced labour which is forbidden in islam and the laws of the land as well. the sajida director of secondary education lahore others reported as plc (cs) has held as under: authorities could not be permitted to withhold the salary of a serving employee and to make her starve for no fault of her in addition to the above, in a recent judgment in the case titled govt. of gilgit -baltistan others niaz ali (cpla no. ), this court has made clear regarding non-payment of salary against the work taken. for ease of reference, the relevant paragraph from the said judgment is reproduced below: duty work obtained from an employee without salary is against the islamic injunctions which have envisaged payment of salary wages before weat is dried. there are various hadis in this regard. abdullah ibn umar reported: the messenger of allah, peace and blessings be upon him, said, pay the worker his wages before his sweat has dried. (source: sunan ibn a jah mishqat masabih page volume no. ). furthermore, performance of duty without salary wages amounts to forced labour which is forbidden in islam and in the constitution of pakistan as well the supreme law of the land is the law of quran and sunnah. the holy quran in the atter with regard to rights of the people commands as under: allah said: do not withhold from the people the things that are their due (quran surah verse our beloved holy prophet mohammad )in this regard has also been pleased to command on the matter as under: page page of (prov. govt. mehboob hussain employer must declare the wages to worker before the worker embark on the required ork (baihai) the above discussion observations brought us to the conclusion that the impugned judgment is not suffering from illegality, irregularity or infirmity which could call for interference by this court. hence, leave in the above cpla under objection no. is refused. the consolidated .. the learne gilgit baltistan chief court in civil first appeal no. civil first appeal no. and civil first appeal no. is maintained. the petitioner are directed to comply with the judgment of the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court and submit compliance report to the registrar of this court. these were the reasons for our short .., which is reproduced below: the case has been heard and record perused. we have not been able to find any illegality or infirmity in the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, gilgit in civil first appeal no. therefore, for the reasons to be recorded later, leave in the above cpla under objection no. is refused. the civil misc. application no. is dismissed. judgmen the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in the above referred civil first appeal, stands maintained chief (yes no