page page of (chief secretary gb other ali jan in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit chief (against the .. the gilgit baltistan service tribunal, gilgit in service appeal no. chief secretary govt. of gilgit -baltistan, gilgit secretary finance govt. of gilgit -baltistan, gilgit secretary education govt. gilgit -baltistan, gilgit director education govt. of gilgit -baltistan, gilgit accountant general gilgit -baltistan, gilgit petitioner ali jan bps ex -principal, govt. college of education, gilgit mehboob ali bs ex headmaster, govt. middle school khomer gilgit. syed muzaffar hussain ex headmaster high school gulmit muhammad karim khan, ex headmaster high school haramosh sultan ullah baig ex headmaster high school bubar muhammad karim ex headmaster high school gupis abdul jabbar instru ctor college of education gilgit imam yar baig ex principal govt. college of education gilgit amir haider ex headmaster middle school minapin nagar ibrahim khan tgt high school askurdas syed sabit rahim ex headmaster high school taus yasin muhammad iqbal ex dis gilgit shan muhammad ex headmaster middle sc hool sultanabad abdul majid ex headmaster high school damote shah mirza khan ex headmaster middle school jutal ibrahim khalil ex adi hunza nagar muhammad zahid khan ex dde doe gilgit muhammad qudoos ex hea dmaster high school gullapure doulat mir ex headmaster high school danyore muhammad jabir ex headmaster high school jalalabad muzaffar shah ex headmaster high school gahkuch hazrat shah ex headmaster high school sherqilla abdul karim tgt high school ullapur ibad ullah ex headmaster high school sharote ehsan ali ex headmaster high school amphari shahbaz khan ex headmaster high school oshikhandas lal mast khan ex headmaster high school jalalabad page page of (chief secretary gb other ali jan afiat khan ex headmaster tgt jalalabad abdul razaque ex he admaster high school bargo nisar hussain ex headmaster high school nomal habib ur rehman ex headmaster high school darel hamidullah ex dde diamer muhammad irshad ex dis gilgit muhammad jaffar ex adi, high school khaplu naik alam ex headmaster high school a store bala muhammad hadi ex headmaster chorkah yasmin kousar tgt kgs town skardu syed abdullah shah middle school gial skardu muhammad nasir headmaster boys middle school bargo shahida khurshid instructor college of education gilgit. respondent present: for the petitioner (s): the advocate general gb for the respondent(s): munir ahmed advocate shakoor khan aor date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: the petitioners, through this civil leave to appeal, has challenged the .. the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal, gilgit in service appeal no. whereby service appeal filed by the respondent was accepted and the present petitioner were directed to grant benefits of the timescale upgradation granted vide notification no. f. -i -edu dated 14th october, to the respondent subject to fulfillment of eligibility criteria. brief facts leading to the institution of the instant civil leave to appeal are that the respondent were serving in education department gilgit -baltistan in same cadre in different pay scales and stood retired on attaining the age of superannuation on di fferent dates. all the respondent stood retired before the year in the year page page of (chief secretary gb other ali jan the prime minister of pakistan vide directive no. dated .. grant ed timesc ale upgradation to all the teacher in bps above under a times cale formula, which was published in part -ii of the gazette of pakistan and the cabinet secretariat, capital administration development division, govt. of pakistan vide notification no. f.- -edu. dated .., circulated those directive to all the province including gilgit -baltistan azad jammu kashmir for its implementation w.e.f ... on 10th june, vide notification no. sec.edu -() the secretary education, social welfare women development gilgit -baltistan, upon approval of the competent authority the then chief minister gilgit -baltistan, allowed adoption of times cale upgradation formula for teachers in bps above in gilgit -baltistan. the respond ents, who retired on different dates in between the years approached the director of education and the chief secretary gilgit -baltistan with the request for making the said timescale upgradation effective from the date when the federal government employees were allowed the same benefit (i.e. .. through the prime minister directive (i.e. directive no. dated .. ). the said request was not acceded to by the petitioners, which culminated into institution of service appeal by the respondent before the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal allowed appeals of the respondent and directed the petitioner to allow benefits of the timescale upgradation with effect from the year being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the judgment th learned gbst, the petitioner have now approached this court by way of the instant civil leave to appeal. page page of (chief secretary gb other ali jan the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan argued that the respondent cannot claim benefits of the timescale upgradation at this belated stage on the ground that the govt. of gilgit -baltistan grant ed timescale to the teachers under times cale upgradation formula in the year and the respondent approached the gb service tribunal in the year after a lapse of about years. he next argued that as per notification no. sec.edu -() dated 10th june, times cale upgradation formula was applicable to the teachers of gi lgit-baltistan w.e.f .. only, hence in this view of the matter, the respondents, who retired prior to .. were barred to claim the timescale w.e.f. ... the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan next argued that since the learned gb service tribunal failed to apply its judicious mind to take into consideration the material facts and legal aspects of the case, hence, the impugned judgment so the learned gbst was liable to be set aside. the arguments advanced by the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan have been heard. we have also gone through the record of the case as well. it is an admitted fact that notification no. f.i i -edu. dated .. was issued in compliance with the directives of the prime minister of pakistan, whereby certain posts of teaching cadre were accorded timescale upgradation for federal directorate of education, islamabad and a copy thereof was also endorsed to government of gilgit -baltistan. it is a matter of record that in line with the above notification, the government of gilgit -baltistan also issued a notification grantin the benefit of timescale upgradation facility to a set of teachers of grade and page page of (chief secretary gb other ali jan below, while timescale upgradation facility was refused to the teachers in bps and above. this factum is evident from the contents of summary dated 8th june, initiated by the office of secretary education, gb. the relevant lines are extracted and reproduced below: government of gilgit -baltistan office of the secretary education, social welfare women dev. no. sec. edu.() dated 8th june, summary for the chief minister gilgit -baltistan subject: grant of time scale to the teachers of gilgit -baltistan .. the time scale facility has been sanctioned by the federal government for teachers in bs- and above under the federal directorate of education, islamabad w.e.f. .. vide notification dated ... since the said facility to the teachers in bs and below working in gilgit -baltistan has already been sanctioned recently, therefore, time scale facility is recommended to the teachers in bs and above working in the educational institutions of gilgit -baltistan as under consequent upon approval of the summary referred to hereinabove, a notification no. sec.edu () dated 10th june, was issued whereby timescale upgradation formula for teachers in ps- and above under the directorate of education, gilgit -baltistan was approved w.e.f. ... it was contended by the respondent in their service appeals before the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal that timescale upgradation facility was sanctioned by the prime minister of pakistan in the year page page of (chief secretary gb other ali jan which was imp lemente by capital administration and development division, islamabad, the same should have been adopted by the government of gilgit -baltistan with effect from the same year or the subsequent notification issued in the year should have been given retrospective effect so as to make it applicable from the date of issuance of notification by the federal government i.e. when the respondent were serving the education department, gilgit baltistan. they further contended in the service a ppeals before the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal that act of non -adopting timescale upgradation facility or refusing retrospective effect to the notification issued by the government of gilgit -baltistan deprive the respondent from their lawful right of benefits of timescale upgradation granted by a lawful authority i.e. the chief executive of the country and retired them without benefits of the said facility. it is pertinent to note here that in view of the contents of summary quoted above, although the notification issued by the federal government in the year was adopted to the extent of timescale upgradation of the teachers of bps- and below. the concerned authorities, for the reasons best known to the m, refused the due benefit of timescale upgradation to teachers in bps- and above. it was apprised to the court that whenever the federal government accords timescale upgradation to other posts in federal government, within no time, the same is implemented in gilgit -baltistan. such examples were stated to be with regard to posts of superintendents, assistants, udcs and ldcs etc. whose notifications issued by the federal government, were implemented in true spirit and without any delay. this page page of (chief secretary gb other ali jan attitude on the part of the concerned authorities of government of gilgit -baltistan manifests that these authorities tend to act as per their own wishes and convenience influenced by their personal liking or dislik ing. there is another example of upg radation of posts of private secretaries, stenographer and steno typists. the upgradation to these posts was allowed by the prime minster of pakistan in the year however, the benefits of this upgradation were not allowed to the incumbent until they got the same through courts of law after about years by sustaining financial loss in terms of litigation fee and mental agony as well. this act on the part of the public functionaries of gilgit -baltistan is nothing but a blatant discriminati on on the basis of liking or disliking. it can be seen from the documents available on file record, that government of gilgit -baltistan has been giving effect to such notifications on piecemeal basis as per their own wishes and convenience because, in the present case, implementation of the notification of timescale upgradation facility accorded by the prime of pakistan in the year has been acted upon in two phases. as per the summary referred to hereinabove, timescale upgradation facility to the extent of teachers in grade- and below has been granted earlier while the notification with regard to upgradation of teachers in bps- and above was issued on 1st july, i.e. after retirement of the respondents, as such, for no fault of them, the respondent have been deprived of from the benefits of said timescale upgradation facility. such attitude of government functionaries is considered as bad governance. the (chief secretary gb other ali jan pensioners reported as pld sc laid a principle and held as under: everyone, who was responsible in any manner in delaying the cases of (employees government servants) had to be penalized it is expected from the government functionaries to give equal importance to all such notifications and avoid resort ing to delaying tactics as well as avoid pick and choose mechanism while granting benefits of such notifications. the public functionaries must also avoid discrimination while extending the benefits of a policy to the employees of same cadre. it is unjust, unfair and against the natural one set is given benefits in time and he other set is left to retire without any benefits of the same notification extended to equally placed persons. this court, in a number of judgments, has repeatedly directed the public functionaries of gilgit -baltistan to be just and fair in order to avoi discrimination amongst equally placed employees. in this regard, this court in a case tilted provincial government through chief secretary others niaz ali (cpla no. has held as under: while dealing with the issue of equality amongst equals, the .a sharwani others govt. of pakistan through secretary finance division islamabad others scmr has held as under: that equal protection of law does not envisage that every citizen is to be treated alike in all circumstances, but it contemplates that persons similarly situated or similarly placed are to be treated alike under the law, it is obligatory upon the public functionaries to redress grievances of general public including their subordinate employees in accordance with the law. in this regard, it is page page of (chief secretary gb other ali jan pertinent to mention here that in order to make the public functionaries realize their responsibilities, the legislature has felt it imperative to insert in the general clauses acts laying down responsibilities of the public functionaries. for the sake of brevity, the said section is reproduced herein below: 24a. exercise of power under enactments. (). where by or under any enactment, a power to make any order to give any direction is conferred on any authority, office or person such power shall be exercised reasonably, fairly, justly and for the advancement of the purpose of the enactment perusal of the contents of the above section of the general clauses acts makes it abundantly clear that public functionaries are duty bound to decide applications grievances of citizen without fear, favour, nepotism, with reasons, within reasonable time and without discrimination. the (at page para ). the exercise of discretionary power must be rational and have a nexus with the objectives of the underlying legislature, when it confers a wide ranging power it must be deemed to have assumed that the power will be, firstly, exercised in good faith, secondly, for the advancement of the object of the legislation, and thirdly in a reasonable manner. of the general clauses act, reiterates the principle tha statutory powers is to be exercised reasonably, fairly, justly and for the advancement of the purposes of the enactment and further clarifies that executive authority must give reasons for its decisions. any action by any executive authority which is iolative of these principles is liable to be struck down so far as the arguments of the learned advocate general regarding entertaining time barred service appeal(s) by the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal is concerned, it is clear that in view of the judgment of the it is discretion of the learned service tribunal to determine the suitability of condonation page page of (chief secretary gb other ali jan of delay in view of peculiar circumstances of each case. for the sake of brevity, some of those cases are quoted herein. the quetta electric supply company (qesco) rana shamim akhtar scmr we have not been persuaded to agree with the prime contention of learned advocate sup reme court on behalf of petitioner that learned federal service tribunal was not justified to entertain and decide the time barred appeal for the simple reason that question qua condonation of delay squarely falls within he jurisdictional domain of learned service tribunal and no restriction whatsoever has been imposed by any law and condonation can be granted in suitable cases and question of suitability is to be assessed by th learned federal service tribunal itself the .w.f.p asif iqbal scmr has also held as under: it is well -settled by now that sufficiency of cause for condonation of delay being question of fact is within the exclusive in the backdrop of what has been discussed above, we are of the considered view that the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal while declaring the respondent entitled for benefits of timescale upgradation from the date of notification issued by the federal government, has not erred, neither in facts nor in law. the government of gilgit -baltistan without any justification has deprived the respondent from the page page of (chief secretary gb other ali jan benefits of the timescale upgradation besides violation of fundamental rights of benefits of lawful gain. the public functionaries are directed to avoid implementing such notifications on piecemeal basis, rather such notifications, if required to be implemented, be implemented as a whole and that too in its true letter and spirit. in view of what has been discussed above, we are unable to find any illegality, infirmity or irregularity in the impugned judgment. therefore, leave in the above cpla no. is refused. impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal in service appeal no. is maintained. the petitioner are directed to implement the impugned judgment in its true spirit. the above were the reasons of our hort .. which is reproduced below: the lear ned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan has been heard. we have also gone through the impugned judgment as well as available record of the case. the learned, ag, gilgit -baltistan vehemently opposed the impugned judgment on various factual and legal grounds. however, we have not been able to find any illegally, irregularity or infirmity in the impugned judgment. therefore, for the reasons to be recorded later, leave in the above cpla no. is refused. consequently, impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal, gilgit in service appeal no. stands maintained upheld chief (yes no