page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cpla no. ahlian -e-zail through representatives:- abdul qayyum dilawar khan ajad son of muhammad anwar. murad khan son of azoor khan ex. subidar sher ahmed son of niaz muhammad ghulam abbas ex chairman union council son of sidan village zail tehsil shounter district astore. petitioner s. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. secretary local government gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. director lg rd gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. deputy director lg rd district astore. deputy commissioner astore. ahlian village nogham and village maikal through representatives. master musa son of noor. abdul raziq son of saidullah. muhammad noor son of fida. nabi son of juma khan. budoo son of rozi khan. juma noor son of ali noor village nogham and village maikal tehsil shiounter district astore. respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. the advocate general on behalf of th respondents. to date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the division bench of learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby, the revision petition of the petitioner was dismissed while maintaining the .. in cfa no. th learned district page th petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the aforementioned impugned judgment of the learned gilgit baltistan chief court filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent for th eir appearance and the case was finally heard today. briefly the facts of the case are that a civil suit no. was filed by the petitioner against the respondent for declaration with consequential relief etc alongwith an application under orde rule read with section cpc fo grant of temporary injunction. the learned civil .. while fixing the main case on .. for hearing on its own merits. the petitioner being aggrieved called in question the said impugned order before the first appellate court i.e. learned district instead of deciding application order rule cpc, the main suit pending in the learned trial court was dismissed vide order ... the petitioner feeling aggrieved filed civil revision before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, which was also dismissed vide impugned .. in civil revision no. hence this leave to appeal. the said proposal for construction of a bridge over a river of village zail by the individuals of another village was based on malafide. he also submits that the petitioner being aggrieved filed civil suit before the learned trial court alongwith an application under order rule read with section cpc praying therein to grant interim relief. the learned trial court upon hearing dismissed the application of interim relief vide .. whereas the main suit was fixed to be hear on ... he further submits that the petitioner being aggrieved from the refusal of grant of interim relief by the learned trial court filed civil first appeal before the learned district .. which was upheld by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court vide its impugned .. passed in civil revision no. he reiterates that the petitioner through their application under order rule sought interim relief to restrain the respondent from carrying out the construction of the bridge in question at the village of the petitioner but the learned district -baltistan chief page court, hence, the impugned judgment as well as findings orders of first appellate court are not sustainable and liable to be set aside. on the other hand, the learned advocate general appearing on behalf of the respondent no to alongwith to supports the impugned judgment. they contend that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has rightly upheld the order of the learned district they also contend that mouza nogham is comprised of four () villages i.e. gulteri, makial, zail and khumy, hence, the same is a multiword from where three () members of union councils are elected. similarly there is only single voter list of mouza nogham consisting upon voters including both male and female as per election list of the bridge in question was proposed by the then elected members of the said un ion councils. they finally contend that the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court may graciously be maintained being passed in accordance with law and facts of the case and no interference is warranted. we have heard both the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case and gone through the impugned judgment the learned gilgit baltistan chief court as well as the orders the courts below. the careful perusal of the case transpires that an application for grant of temporary injunction under order rule read page with section cpc was dismissed by the learned trial court vide ... the same was challenged before the learned district the learned district prima facie the both questions of facts and law involved which can only be resolve decided after framing of disputed i ssues and recording of evidence of the parties thereto. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the order .. of learned district the case is remanded back to learned trial court astore to proceed with the case as directed by it to come up on .. for re -joinder vide ... the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?