page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan at skardu registry. chief judge. judge. cpla. no. mst. sughra others petitioners. hamid hussain others. respondents. present:- date of hearing:- ... date of detail judgment:- .. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil misc. no. in csa. no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court whereby the civil misc. no. in csa. no. of the respondent was dismissed by maintaining the judgments of the learned courts below, hence, this leave to appeal. briefly the facts of the case are that the petitioner filed civil suit no. in the court of learned civil namely khursheed son of narullah khan was adopted as son by her father wazir rustam ali through adoption -deed dated 25th chet bikrimi and owner of all the moveable and immoveable properties. her father page had also given her in marriage of the said respondent in tender age. after the death of her father, respondent no. malafidely disposed of the property given to him by her father through sale transactions with others and thereby he also divorced her. in the year the petitioner filed a suit for the recovery of the said propert in the learned senior civil court, skardu which was adjudicated against her vide ... the petitioner filed an the said judgment before the learned district judge, baltistan which was also met with the same fate vide ... the petitioner namely mst. nargis instead of challenging the validity of the judgments the learned two lower courts before higher forum, resorted to shariah arbitrators who after hearing the parties passed verdict in favour of the petitioner (nargis). consequently, the respondent no. namely khursheed returned some land to her bearing khewat no. and situated as mouza goal. later on she again brought the issue before mahkama-e-shari, skardu for recovery of remaining land which was sold by the respondent no. to rest of the respondent in the year she again succeeded in obtaining another shari verdict but the contesting respondent no. to denied to acknowledge to the shari verdict dated ... during the pendency of the case the petitioner (nargis) died as such her legal heirs were impleaded in the instant case. the respondent no. did not contest the suit and filed his admissional written statement on .. whereas the remaining respondent contested the suit page by filing their para-wise written statements. in their para-wise statements they alleged that the subject matter of the suit has been purchased by their predecessors in mid-fifties from respondent no. who was the then owner of the suit property. the rest of the respondent pleaded that the suit of the petitioner is hopelessly barred by limitation and hit by law of res-judicata. the petitioner being aggrieved filed civil misc. no. in csa. no. before the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court which upon hearing was dismissed by maintaining the judgments of the learned courts below vide impugned .., hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal. consequently, notices were issued to the respondent and the case was heard on ... we after hearing the respective parties dismissed the appeal by maintaining the concurrent findings of the learned three courts below vide our short ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that although there are three concurrent findings of the learned courts below in favour of the respondents, however, the question of law raised in the learned trial court skardu, has not been heard and decided in accordance with the parameters laid down by the superior courts. he also submits that the judgments decrees were obtained by the respondent through fraud and misrepresentation. he further submits that the respondent no. after marrying with the mother of the petitioner maneuvered the documents of her page property fraudulently in his name and later on he sold it out the said properties. whereafter he divorced the mother of the petitio ner. he finally submits that the learned courts below fell in error while deciding the case of the petitioners. the petitioner being aggrieved filed petition under section () cpc but the same was also dismissed by the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court vide impugned ... he prays that the impugned .. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court as well as the judgments of the learned courts below are not tenable and liable to be set aside. on the other hand the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned .. in civil misc. no. in csa. no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court. he contends that the same has been passed in accordance with law and facts of the case, hence, the said impugned judgment may graciously be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil misc. no. in csa. no. the learned gilgit- baltistan chief court as well as the concurrent findings of the courts below. furthermore, the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned page .. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court. in view of the above discussions, we dismissed this appeal vide short ... consequently, the impugned .. in civil misc. no. in csa. no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court as well as the .. in civil first appeal. no. the learned district .. in civil suit no. the learned civil these were the reasons for our short ... the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?