page page of (prov. got. naveed enterprises) in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit chief (against the .. the gilgit -baltistan chief court in c.f.a. no. prov. government gb through chief secretary secretary works, gilgit -baltistan deputy commissioner, district ghizer executive engineer division district ghizer tajwar khan, chief engineer planning gilgit division petitioner naveed enterprises through manager haji abid hussain, shahra -e-quaid azam, jutial gilgit respondent muhammad wali ex. sub -engineer division district chizer, resident of khur tehsil and district gilgit abdul majeed qureshi, house o. street sector islamabad proforma respondent present: for the petitioner s: advocate general, gilgit -baltistan date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: -this judgment shall dispose of the instant civil leave to appeal directed against the .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in c.f.a. no. whereby civil first appeal filed by the present petitioner was dismissed. page page of (prov. got. naveed enterprises) brief facts forming background for institution of the instant civil leave to appeal are that the present respondent instituted civil suit no. against the present petitioner before the learned senior civil (rupees seven lac forty six thousand) with interest on account of supply of explosives accessories. the learned trial court vide .. decreed the suit of present respondent in the sum of rs. (seven lac ten thousand) with interest. the petitioner challenged the judgment the learned trial court before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court means of civil first appeal no. the learned chief court, after hearing the parties, dismissed the civil first appeal and maintained the judgment decree the learned trial court. the judgment the learned chief court in the abov civil first appeal has now been impugned before this court by way of the instant civil to leave appeal. the learned advocate general gb argued that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court erred in law and facts to maintain the judgment decree of learned trial court as the judgment the learned court was defective of various factual and legal grounds and passed the judgment arbitrarily, ex -parte, one sided and in hasty manner without hearing the petitioners, as such is not maintainable. it was next argued by the learned advocate general that the suit of the present respondent before the learned trial court was false and frivolous on the ground that first, no tender was called for supply of the alleged explosive items; secondly no supply order was issued by concerned authorities of works department, ghizer in favour of the present respondent for page page of (prov. got. naveed enterprises) supply of the alleged explosive items; and thirdly no explosive items were received by the petitioner no. (xen ghizer) from the present respondent. the learned advocate general next argued that the respondent no. the then sub -engineer ghizer) who claimed to have received and handed over the alleged explosive items to then sub -engineer mir jahan shah filed and recorded false statement before the court and that he also failed to shatter the evidence of mir jahan shah to whom he claimed to make the alleged delivery of explosive material. the learned advocate general next contended that the learned chief court as well as the learned trial court wrongly relied upon the false and fabricated statement of the respondent no. (m uhammad wali, the then sub-engineer ghizer) inasmuch as the statement recorded by the respondent no. before the learned trial court was without permissi on of the concerned department and prayed for setting aside the impugned judgment the learne gilgit -baltistan chief court. arguments advanced by the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan have been heard. we have also perused the case record and gone through the impugned judgment of the learned chief court and judgment decree the learned trial court as well. it is the case of the present respondent that he delivered the disputed explosive material to the petitioner no. (the then xen district ghizer) through respondent no. (muhammad wali, the then sub -engineer). from perusal of judgment decree of the learned trial court it transpired that to this effect, the learned trial court framed as many as issues. out of these issues, onus of proof regarding issues was placed on the present respondent (plaintiff before the page page of (prov. got. naveed enterprises) learned trial court) and all the issues stood proved which included the issue relating to relief. contrarily, burden of proving issues was placed on the petitioner and all these issues held unprove d. in addition to this, the significant aspect of case which almost led to decree ing suit in favour of the present respondent was filing of con ceding statement as well as statement recorded befor the court by respondent no. (muhammad wali, the then sub -engineer ghizer) to the effect that he purchased the explosive material from the respondent no. on verbal directions of the then xen ghizer for carrying out emergency rehabilitation work in distr ict ghizer and handed over the same to mir jahan shah, sub enginee and remained stuck to his stance throughout the trail. it is pertinent to mention here that i a subordinate staff of executive engineer ghizer filed and recorded false statement (s) before the learned trial court against interest of the state which caused loss to the public exchequer, an inquiry should have been conducted against him and if it was proved in the inquiry that he actually recorded false statement before the court, he was liable to be penalized strictly in accordance with the law. this view of ours is further strengthened by a judgment of the faisalabad allah bakhsh plc (cs) the relevant part whereof is reproduced as under: it is pertinent to note that the government properties and the government funds are not be doled out by the government officials, either to private persons or to themselves, and such conduct amounts to fraud upon the government and person(s) committing fraud or embezzlement of the government property or money could, in no circumstances, be treated leniently in disciplinary proceedings and in page page of (prov. got. naveed enterprises) appropriate cases, be allowed to continue in the service if the department was sure that the respondent no. had recorded false statement before the court, an immediate disciplinary action was required to be initiated against him, but record available with the case in hand lacks any proof or any verbal statement by concerned officers of works department which could indicate that disciplinary action was taken by the authorities of works department, gilgit baltistan against the sub -engineer. this simply shows that in fact the explosive material was received and deli vered by the respondent no. otherwise what were the compelling circumstances which did not allow the works department to take disciplinary action against the said sub -engineer. as far as contention of the learned advocate general that the respondent no. (muhammad wali, the then sub -engineer) record statement before the learned trial court without permission authority of authorities of works department is concerned, the submissions by the learned advocate general gb to this are not tenable because being party to the suit, presence of the respondent no. before the trial court was essential. even otherwise, the learned trial court coul summon for presence of the respondent no. being claimant to have purchased and delivered the explosive material to works department ghizer, as his statement was essential ly required to be recorded before the court and in this way, no permission or authority of the department was required for the respondent no. for making his appearance before the trial court. so far as contention of the learned advocate general that no tender was called and participated by the page page of (prov. got. naveed enterprises) respondent and that no supply order for supplying the disputed explosive material was issued in favour of the present respondent are concerned, it is ade clear that it was the legal and procedural responsibility of the concerned department to undertake not by the respondent. hence, commission of procedural and legal lapses by the authorities of concerned department could not be rest on the shoulders of the respondent to deny him his payment against explosive material provided by him. the stance of department regarding non-supplying the explosive material by the respondent is further negated by a letter dated .. addressed to he chief engineer works department, gilgit region by the respondent containing request for payment of explosive accessories. this letter was duly marked by the chief engineer concerned to the xen ghizer with the remarks for necessary action as desired pl when the said letter was delivered to the executive engineer ghizer, he wrote his remarks on the said letter in the se words: the explosive received by -engineer during the month of august so complete the codal formalities the invoices issued by the respondent in this regard also carry the dates of august, this is a fact of worth consideration that if the explosive material was not received by the works department at all then why the chief engineer works and executive engineer entertained this letter and put their respective remarks on it. therefore, i view of what has been stated above, it can safely be held that the petitioner tended to use tactics to deprive the respondent from his lawful right of payment against the explosive material. foregoing in view, we did not find any illegality or infirmity in the impugned judgment. therefore, leave in the page page of (prov. got. naveed enterprises) above cpla is refused. the impugned .. the learned gi lgit-baltistan chief court in c.f.a. no. is maintained. these were the reasons for our hort .., which is reproduced below: the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan has been heard at length. he could not point out any material irregularity, illegality or infirmity in the impugned judgment the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. therefore, for the reasons to be recorded later, leave in the above cpla no. is refused. the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in c.f.a no. stands maintained chief (yes no