page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. cpla. no. mst. fatima others widow of muhammad khalil lali khor abbas town skardu. mst. salima widow of muhammad khalil house no. muhallah lal kurti dubair shop road cant sialkot. mst. rabia muhammad khalil hussain abad, skardu. mst. amina ansari muhammad khalil muhallah poqsoq sethang skardu and others. mst. zakia. mst. maryam muhammad khalil. muhammad ali lali khor abbas town skardu. mst. zehra muhammad jan muhallah poqsoq sethang tehsil district skardu. muhammad amin khan muhammad ibrahim abbas town moza olding, skardu. petitioner defendants. mst. halima muhammad khalil lali khor abbas town skardu. provincial government through chief secretary gilgi t- baltistan others. respondents. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order read with the relevant provisions of gilgit -baltistan supreme appellate court rules against the impugned in civil revision no. whereby accepting the revision petition filed by respondent no. plaintiff the judgment decree district .f.a no. (ad) converting this leave to appeal into appeal and accepting the appeal the impugned judgment date the chief baltistan and impugned civil for the ends of justice, law and equity. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. the learned counsel for the petitioner contends that the respondent no. filed a civil suit in the court civil who upon hearing through .. in civil suit no. decreed the same in favor of the plaintiff resp ondent. the petitioner defendant feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed civil first appeal no. before the court of district whereby, the learned district .. in cfa no. and partially accepted the appeal and decreed to the extent of suit properties situated at mouza hoto, mouza hussain abad under survey number and mouza olding under survey number (poqsoq) was set aside and decree to the extent of two houses situated at olding kharmang and skardu was maintained. the respondent no feeling aggrieved by and page dissatisfied with filed civil revision no. in the learned chief court against the judgment of learned district who upon hearing vide .. in civil revision no. set aside the impugned judgment the learned district he submits that the judgment of the learned civil -appreciation of evidence. he finally submits that the learned chief court did not consider the concealing and distortion act of respondent no. regarding the sale of her share at sethang olding, hussain abad total measuring of eight () kanals and ten () marlas to the respondent no. he finally prays that both the judgment the learned civil we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil revision no. as well as the judgments both the courts below. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any infirmity and illegality in the well reasoned impugned judgment the leaned chief court gilgit -baltistan, therefore, no page interference is warranted in the impugned judgment. conse quently, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. the petition is dismissed and the leave is refused. the impugned judgment dated .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court and judgment date .. passed in civil suit no. by the learned civil the leave is refused. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?