page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit muhammad yaqoob judge. cpla.no provincial government through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan and others petitioners. sadar az am muhammad akbar phuguch, darel, district diamer and others respondents. cpla. no. zia-ur-rehman haji gahrib khan phuguch darel district diamer and others petitioner sadar azam muhammad akbar phuguch darel distr ict diamer and others respondents. grant of leave to appea against the impugned -- the division bench of the northern areas gilgit, whereby the division bench has accepted the review etition no. c.misc. no. advocate general gilgit -baltistan for provincial government haji mirza ali advocate for respondent muhammad issa sr. advocate assisted by malik shafqat wali advocate for petitioner in cpla. no. date of hearin g: -- judgment cj: these two connected petitions have been directed against the judgment date -- the chief court in a review petition which arised out of the -- in a writ petition no. whereby the petitioner therein sought direction to the provincial government of gilgit baltistan for their appointment in pbs from the date of their induction in service. the short facts leading to this petition in the background are that the petitioner in writ petition no. in pursuance of the advertisement made by the director education to fill the vacant posts of teacher in different districts page of gilgit baltistan applied for the post s. the petitioner on qualifying the test and interview and on the basis of educational qualification possessed by them were appointed as teacher in bps and after serving the department for a considerable period, they filed a representation before the competent authority for their appointment in grade on the ground that subsequent to the joining of service they have improved their professional qualification and being graduate with ct may be adjusted in bps against the posts which were lying vacant since the time of their appointment. the department appointed a committee to look into the matter and the committee after a detail probe submitted it report wherein it was pointed out that few posts of bps and bps teachers were vacant at the time when the petitioner were appointed but the being not qualified for appointment as bps- teachers could not be appointed against the vacant posts. however this committee recommended that teachers appointed in bps may be given bps- from the date of their initial appointment and on their failu re before the department al authorities they filed separate writ petition in the chief court. the petitioner in connected petition with identical grievance filed writ petition no. and chief court disposed of both the writ petitions on the same day by separate orders. the writ petition no. titled zia ur rehman etc provincial government etc was disposed of with observation that petitioner due to lack of qualification of ct and b.ed initially were not appointed in bps but they having improved their qualification during the service would be entitled to be adjusted in bps against the five vacant posts in sub division darel and directed the education directorate to consider their case accordingly on verification of their educational qualification etc for the post. the writ petition no. filed by sardar azam and others was dismissed vide -- without grant of relief prayed therein page therefore the petitioner in this petition filed a review petition with assertio that they would stand at par to the petitioner in writ etition no. and were entitled to be treated accordingly. the precise case of the petitioner in writ petition was that they have been discriminated. the chief court having conside red the matter on the basis of additional documents brought on record in review petition observed that the petitioner were also entitled to be considered for adjustment in bps alongwith the petitioner in writ petition no. and allowed the revie petition. the -- passed in writ petition no. was accordingly modified with direction to the education department for verification of the educational qualification of petitioner for their consideration for appointment again st the vacant posts of teachers bps -. the department has filed the present petition no. cpla against the order of the chief court passed in review jurisdiction without challenging the order passed in writ etition bearing no. filed by zia ur rehman etc and petitioner in the connected petition cpla no. are also aggrieved of the judgment under challenge. the learned advocate general has submitted that both set of teacher on the basis of improved professional qualification during service would have no right to claim initial appointment in bps against the vacant posts and that the private respondent having accepted appointment in bps would be estopped to claim right of appointment in bps -. the learned advocate general argue that the petitioner in writ petition also had no right to claim initial appointment in bps on the basis of their b.a degree without the qualification of ct or b.ed. the learned advocate general forcefully argued that the order the chief court on the basis of additional documents brought on record for the first time by the private respondent in review petition was not proper and legal and the court in review jurisdiction could hardly rectify the substantial error page in the judgment effecting the rights of parties and was not supposed to fill the lacuna of the case of either party. the learned counsel for the private respondent in this petition and petitioner in the connected petition contended that the department having not challenged the judgment rendered by the chief court in the writ petition no. would not be able to question the illegality of judgment in that petition in the collateral proceedings in the present petition. the examination of the record with assistance of lea rned counsel for the parties would unambiguously suggest that none of the teacher in these two petitions had the qualification for initial appointment in bps and they willingly accepted the appointment in the grade for which they qualified therefore their representation before the competent authority could not succeed and further the committee constituted to examine their case having not found them entitled for appointment in bps recommended their adjustment in bps -. we noticed that the se teachers after lapse of considerable period filed representation before the competent authority and on failure to get desired result filed separate writ petition in the chief court with the defect of laches but the chief court deemed it proper to decide the same merits. the learned counsel for the private respondent in cpla no. and petitioner in cpla no. have not been able to satisfy us with reference to the rules on the subject that the teachers in these two petitions had any right to claim initial appointment in bps on the basis of graduation degree without possessing the required professional qualification of ct and b.ed instead learned counsel have frankly conceded that they were not holding professional qualification of ct and b.ed at th time of initial appointment. there is no cavil to the proposition that a person placed in same position in alike circumstances is entitled to the same treatment but there is no rule to claim a right to which a person was not otherwise entitled. page be that as it may the private respondent and also the petitioner in these connected petitions could not claim initial appointment in bps merely on the basis of qualification of graduation and we are of the considered view that no legitimate right accrued to them for invoking the writ jurisdiction of the chief court. however we may observe that the department without prejudice to the right of any other teacher senior to them in bps and pbs- or disturbing the right of any other person may consider the resp ondents and the petitioner in connected petitions in their own right for adjustment in bps subject to their qualification and availability of vacancies. the secretary education will constitute a committee for the scrutiny of the qualification and meri ts of each teacher and in exercise of his power as competent authority may consider them for appointment in bps against the vacant posts. this petition is converted into an appeal and disposed of in the above terms. the connected petition no. is also disposed of. chief