page page of (asghar khan others sitara begum) in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit chief (against .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in civil revision no. (). asghar khan () rizwanullah, () kamran ullah sons of aslam khan (late) () mst. nazia begum () mst. shimaila begum () mst. anika begum daughters of aslam khan (late), all residents of kashrote tehsil district gilgit. petitioner mst. sitara begum, widow of aslam khan (late) usmania mohallah kashrote, teshil district gilgit respondent present: for the petitioner s: advocate date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: -this judgment shall dispose of the instant civil leave to appeal directed against the .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in civil revision no. whereby civil revision filed by the present petitioner was partially allowed thereby directing the present petitioner to deposit an amount of rs. before the learned district guardian court, gilgit as remaining amount of shari share of present respondent. brief facts of the case are that after demise of aslam khan, an employee of pia, (father of present petitioner and husband of the present respondent widow ), the present parties legal heirs jointly obtained a succession certificate from the learned district guardian court gilgit in respect of an amount of rs. ,, monthly pension, gp fund, benevolent fund, assistance package and other privileges. the total page page of (asghar khan others sitara begum) amount came to the tune of rs. -. after obtaining the succession certificate, an issue of distribution of above amount cropped up between the parties because the present petitioners, on the basis of a document of will allegedly executed by late aslam khan, claimed exclusive ownership over the above amount. this act of the present petitioner gave rise to grievances for the present respondent which led her to approach the learned district guardian court with a civil misc. application no. the learned district guardian judge, vide .., ordered freezing of amount lying in the account maintained with habib bank ltd. nli market branch, gilgit, surrendering of share of the present respondent before the learned court as well as depositing of the monthly pension of late aslam khan in the said court. the present petitioner being aggrieved by the order the learned district guardian court rushed to the learned chief court by means of filing of civil revision no. the learned chief court, after hearing the parties, partly allowed the civil revision and set aside the order of the learned district guardian the present petitioner again being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the impugned judgment of the lear ned chief court have approached this court by way of the instant civil leave to appeal. the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the present petitioner argued that the impugned judgment the learned chief court was against facts and law inasmuch as is the result of misconception, misunderstanding, misinterpretation and non -reading misreading of evidence, hence was liable to set aside. he next argued that in presence of a will executed by father of the present petiti oners late aslam khan in their favour, the respondent was not entitled to any shari share out of the disputed amount while the learned trial court without appreciating these facts entertained a civil misc. application of respondent and passed .. which was further wrongly maintained by the learned chief court with some modification s, hence both the order judgment of the lea rned courts below being suffering from illegality and infirmity were not maintainable and were liable to be set aside. it was next argued by the page page of (asghar khan others sitara begum) learned counsel for the petitioner that the succession certificate obtained was only with regard to an amount of rs. hence, the learned trial court could not go beyond to pass the impugned orders for surrendering of share of respondent and depositing of monthly pension in the court. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent advanced his arguments in defense of the impugned judgment and prayed for maintaining the same. we have heard the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties. we have also gone through the record of case as well as the impugned judgment order of the courts below. before we go into merit of the case, we deem it appropriate to reproduce co ntents of the succession certificate to substantiate whether the succession certificate was sought only with regard to the amount of rs. or otherwise as claimed by the present petitioners: succession certificate whereas, you applied on .. for grant of succession certificate under section of successions act, in respect of following of late aslam khan son of shah alam khan rs village kashrote, tehsil and district gilgit ___________________________________________________ name of debtor distribution date of instrument if any by which debt is secured amount of debt including interest on the date of application habib bank branch nli market gilgit a rs. monthly pension, gp fund, benevolent fund, p.m cm assistance package and other privileges provided in rules etc. this succession certificate is accordingly granted to your lrs of late aslam khan son of shah alam khan rs village kashrote, tehsil and district gilgit and empowered you to collect the above mentioned claims amounts from the concerned department bank with interest if admissible on the date of application with the direction to utilize and distribute the amounts among yourselves according to your shari share afte realization perusal of the secession certificate reveals that the same was granted by the learned guardian court upon joint application of both the parties and was issued in their joint names. in addition to an amount of rs. -, other benefits in terms of monthly pension, gp fund, benevolent fund and p.m cm assistance package and other privileges were also included in 3rd row of the succession certificate. in the succession certificate, the learned district guardian court has ordered he page page of (asghar khan others sitara begum) parties to collect the amounts claims from the concerned department bank and utiliz and distrib ute among the parties after realization. as such, a question arises that in presence of the alleged will, why the petitioner joined the respondent in obtaining the succession certificate and why they did not produce the copy of the alleged will at the time of proceedings of succession certificates before the court. be that as it may, it appears that after obtaining of the succession certificate in the joint names, the present petitioner took a summersault and tended to take shelter of the alleged will to deprive the present respondent of the shari share left behind by her late husband. perusal of the record further reveals that the petitioner took two instances in on breath i.e. on one hand, the petitioner contended that in the light of the alleged execution of the will by the late aslam khan, the respondent was not entitled to any shari share out of his inheritanc e, while on the other hand they contended that they have already paid rs. to the respondent as her shari share. for the sake of brevity, he relevant lines from the replication objections submitted by the present petitioner before the learned dis trict guardian court in civil misc. no. are reproduced below. the lines are in urdu language which is translated into english as under: despite this, respondent paid rs. together to the applicant in presence of witnesses which was her shari share in addition to the above, during the course of arguments before the learned chief court, parties admitted shari share of respondent amounting to rs. out of the total amount of rs. ,, -. it was further admitted that rs. was already paid to the respondent by the petitioner as her shari share, while with regard to the remaining amount of shari share of the respondent, the petitioner showed readiness to deposit the same in the court of learned guardian judge. the relevant para from the impugned judgment of the learned chief court is reproduced below: during course of arguments, the learned counsel for the parties stated that shari share of respondent mst. sitara begum is an amount amounting to rs. out of total amount of rs. of rs.,, lying in account page page of (asghar khan others sitara begum) no. and the petitioner have paid rs. to the respondent and the petitioner are ready to deposit remaining amount of share of the respondent amounting to rs. in the court of learned guardian in view of the statement of the petitioner quoted herein above, there remained nothing for petitioner to agitate before this court. furthermore, orders of the learned guardian court regarding depositing of monthly pension and freezing of bank account have already been set aside by the learned chief court. even otherwise, it is observed that order of the learned district guardian so is the position with regard to orders of the learned chief court. decision as to payment of the said amount to the respondent as her shari share or otherwise is subject to final decision of the learned district guardian co urt in civil misc. pending adjudication before the said learned court. for what has been discussed above, we do not find any illegality or infirmity in the impugned judgment. therefore, leave in the above cpla no. is refused. the impugned .. the leaned gilgit -baltistan chief court in civil revision no. is maintained. these were the reasons for our short .. which is reproduced as under: case heard and record perused. we did not find any illegality or infirmity in the impugned judgment. therefore, for the reasons to be recorded later, leave in the above cpla no. is refused. the impugned .. the learned ilgit-baltistan chief court in civil revision no. stands maintained chief (yes no