page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan. c.p.l.a. no. chief judge. judge. islamic investment co -operative society aliabad through manager aliabad branch hunza. petitioner plaintiff sultan ishaq, ex. general manager, islamic co -operative society, altit hunza, district gilgit. registrar, co-operative society gilgit. respondent defendants. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order against the jud gment dated --, the chief court. present: advocate for the petitioner. advocate for the respondents. date of hearing: --. order: -operative societies, against the impugned --, the learned single bench of chief court, gilgit -baltistan, whereby the learned single be nch chief court gilgit -baltistan has dismisse the revision petition and uphe ld the award dated --, which has been passed under the ambit of co-operative society act hence this leave to appeal. page the back ground of the civil litigation is that the petitioner pla intiff (islamic investment society) filed a civil suit in the court of civil --, respondent no., being wrong, ex -parte, against he facts and without lawful authority as such the same is not maintainable and liable to be set aside. he further prayed that the -- chief secretary, gilgit -baltistan, being appellate authority is in effective, ab -initio null and void, as a consequential relief has also prayed, for a permanent injunction against the recovery proceeding as initiated by respondent no. and against the petitioner plaintiff. respondent defendant strongly contested the suit on its maintainabi lity by filing an application under order rule of c.p.c, the same was turned down by the learned trial court, holding the civil suit maintainable on --. being aggrieved and di ssatisfied from the --, respondent defendan ts a ssailed this order by way of revision petition before the learned additional district who vide his --, modified the order the learned trial court dated --. the modified order of the learned additional district i. plaintiff islamic investment society shall deposit the whole amount of rs., within a date fixed by the trial court which shall not more then one month. ii. failure to comply with the above aid legal requirements, plaint shall be rejected. impugned order modified. page the present petitioner plaintiff filed a review petition before the same court against the --, which was also dismissed, thereafter the petitioner plaintiff challenged both the impugned orders before the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan, whereby the learned single bench of chief co urt, has disposed of, the second evisi on petition without converting it in to writ petition, as civil procedure code does not rovide any provision for preferring 2nd revision petition. the contents of impugned order is reproduced herein below for clarification of legal and factual position: hence the suit no. and revision in hand are hereby dismissed. award dated --, uphold and executable under the provision of relevant law. arguments heard and record perused. the learned counsel for petitioner advocate, submits, that the impugned judgment is incorrect, baseless, contrary to the facts and record the case, hence not maintainable. he further contended that the impugned judgment has not been discussing the real issue involved in the case. the petitioner had filed revision etition against the order of additional district .,, in the trial court, for further proceeding of suit. but the learned single bench of chief court has given the final judgment in the instant case by astonishingly keeping the real issue un -discussed. therefore, the judgment of single bench of chief court, gilgit -baltistan, is unjustified, arbitrary and against the precious right of the petitioner, as su ch the impugned judgment has no legal sen sity and liable to be set aside. page the second important point raised by the learned counsel for petitioner is that the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan has traveled beyond the scope and object of the revision petiti on, therefore the impugned judgment is vague, perverse, ambiguous and misconceived, as such not maintainable. moreover, the learned single bench of chief court has given he judgment without framing issues, which is in gross violation of the basic principle of law, the impugned judgment of the chief court is not maintainable. on the other hand the learned advocate for the respondent argued and submits that the learned trial court has wrongly dismissed the application dated --, under order rule c.p.c. dated -- by holding the suit maintainable and directing the respondent defendant to file their written statement. the suit of the plaintiff is not maintainable and liable to be dismissed. he further argued that section -a of o-operative society act clearly ousts the jurisdiction of civil court, therefore, the suit is liable to be dismissed at preliminary stage, but the trail court did not do so. he strongly conte nded, that he chief secretary, was obviously exercising the powers of the provincial government, when he heard the appeal and his dec ision attain finality by virtue of section -a of co-operative society act such order shall be final and conclusive and shall not be li able to be called in question before any civil and revenue court, as such the learned single bench chief court, gilgit baltistan, has rightly passed the impugned judgment in favor of respondent defendants. at the end of his arguments the learned counsel for respondent prayed that this leave to appeal may be page dismissed by declaring the same as meritle ss, to meet the ends of justice. we have carefully attended the arguments of learned counsel for both side at length and have perused the available record with due care and aution. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan has failed to exercise its jur isdiction so vested in it on the following grounds. admittedly either right or wrong the respondent no. registrar co-operative society, has passed an award of rs.,, in favour of respondent defendant no. on --, it is also not controve rsial that revision appellate authority i.e. chief secretary, gilgit -baltistan, has dismissed the appeal of petitioner plaintif (islamic investment society on --. petitioner plaintiff has challenged the validity of award, and the recovery of arre ars through the instant suit, therefor the case of plaintiff petitioner comes with in the ambit of co -operative society act on account of which, the respondent no. at the very out set contested the maintainability of the plaint under order rule c.p.c. vide their application dated --. earned trial court has dismissed the said petition with out framing of issues. altho ugh it is pertinent to mention here, that in appe alable case findings should be given after framing of issues, even thoug it may be un -necessary to decide some for purposes of the decision arrived at, but the learned lower courts have failed to frame prelim inary issue regardi ng jurisdiction of civil court thus the findings judgment of the lower courts do not have any egal sensity in accordance with law. the universally recognized principle of law to frame issues and followed by judgment based on discussing every issue in detail has been overlooked page by both the learned lower courts. moreover, the courts should not travel beyond plea dings record available on file, ecision should be based on the case as pleaded, but articularly in this case the learned ingle bench of chief court, has traveled beyond the scope and object of the case pleaded by the parties. in the light of above circumstances we have come to the conclusion that it is a fit case for re mand, therefore we set aside the impugned --, the learned single bench chief court gilgit -baltistan and case is remitted back to the trail court with the direction, to decide the question of jurisdiction in the matter as preliminary issue after filing the written statement on behalf of respondent defen dants. the petitioner plaintiff already deposite rs. in compliance with the order of this court dated --. the trial court is further directed to refrain from releasing the deposited amount to the parties till final disposal of the suit. he short --, is reproduced here under is treated as part of this judgme nt:- for the reasons to be recorded later on this petition is converted into an appeal and allowed. the order of chief court is set aside and case is remitted back to the trial court to decide the question of jurisdiction of civil court in the matter as preliminary issues after written statement is filed by defendant respondent. petition is converted into appeal and allowed. chief