page in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan baltistan. c.p.l.a no. -ud-din acting chief judge. judge. k- tours through arshaf ali huissaini, managing director hussaini chowk skardu. petitioner provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. deputy commisssioner district administration skardu. assistant commissioner administration municipal committee chairman municipal magistrate skardu. traffic magistrate skardu. senior superintendent of olice skardu. respondent civil leave to the judgment decree dated -- the learned single -baltistan chief camp skardu whereby civil revision no. was dismissed without any cogent reasons. by setting aside the impugned -- gilgit -baltistan chief court camp at skardu, impugned judgment decree dated --, and impugned -- pa ssed by civil petitioner may kindly be granted temporary injunction as prayed for, to meet the ends of justice. present: page date of hearing: --- judgment: this leave to appeal has been directed against the -- the learned single bench of the chief court gilgit baltistan. the impugned order in fact is in agreement with the concurrent findings of the learned lower courts, the trial court as well as the 1st appellate court conc erned respectively. the brief facts wrapped with the petition are as such that the present petitioner filed suit no. before the court of lea rned civil -d stand after getting license from the competent authority and carrying their business of transport there -from since long. the plaintiff further contended in the plaint that, recently the defendant are creating hindrances into and verbally prevent the plaintiff from use of the stand for their vehicles and directing the plaintiff company to shift its business to the bus st and constructed by the defendant outside the municipal limits of the city. the petitioner plaintiff filed an application under order rule c.p.c for getting a temporary injunction against the respondent defendant to restrain them from dislodging the petitioner plaintiff from the bus stand constructed by the plaintiff and carried page business. the learned trial court initially granted ad -interim injunct ion against the respondent defendant but vacated the same after hearing the parties. the petitioner plaintiff assailed the vacation order in 1st appeal before the 1st court of appeal. the 1st appellate court also refused to grant temporary injunction. the petitioner feeling aggrieved with the orders of the learned lower courts, challenged the orders before the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan in revision, a learned single hence the concurrent findings of all three courts below are in question before us through the instant petition. we heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at a length. the learned counsel urged that, the petitioner have length. the learned counsel urged hat, the petitioner have spent huge amount in construction of the -class bus stand and carrying transport business there -from and if the respondent defendant are allowed to disturb the petitioner from the running business, the petitioner may suffer an argued that, the petitioner has right to run business of transport and the intervention of the respondent defendant amounts to interference against petitioner fundamental rights. we are disagreed with he points raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner. the points having devoid of substance for the reasons that, the respondent have not prevented the petitioner from page carrying their business of transport and indeed to run a business is fundamental right of a citizen but at same time, the admini strative authorities are to look into the business to avoid administrative problems creative of the business. the petitioner runs a transport business likewise many others; as such the administration faces traffic problems with the passage of time and its open secret that our cities are heavily burdened with the quantum of traffic. the respondent have did nothing with the business of the petitioner but asked to shift its business to the bus stand constructed out said the municipal limits to control the traffic flow into the city. the plaintiff is not only monopolist in the business of transport, there are many other also in this business and if every one is allowed to construct his own bus stand it will cause irreparable loss and sufferings to th citizen and administration could not control the traffic. therefore as a policy a bus stand, has been constructed by the administration for all transport companies to run their business there -from and the bus stand being constructed out side the mun icipal limits, might be useful to curtail and control the traffic rush. hence the counsel has failed to establish the principles (a) prima facie case (b) irreparable loss and (c) balance of convenience which require to be coexisting for grant of a tempor ary inju nction. page last but not the least, the application for grant of injunction require refusal under section (d) of the specific relief act as such the courts below have rightly applied their judicial mind in refusing the remedy and the concurrent fin dings need not to be interfered so leave to appeal is refused to grant and the petition is dismissed. announced -- acting chief