page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan (appellate jurisdiction) c.p.l.a. no. chief judge, -ud-din, judge, provincial government gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan. inspector general of police gilgit -baltistan. senior superintendent of police district ghizer. petitioners. jan wali gul hakee hakis tehsil gupis district ghizer at present fc, sp office, ghizer. respondent. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, read with supreme appeallate court rules, against the judgment .. the chief court gilgit -baltis tan. present: advocate general gilgit -baltistan. dated of hearing: ---. judgment cj: this petition by way of special leave to appeal is directed against the .., the learned single -baltistan whereby civil miscellaneous application no. filled by the writ petitioner for the implementation of the judgment .., passed in writ petition no. page was accepted with the direction to the respondent for payment of back benefits to respondent herein. the facts in brief as gleaned out from the record are tha the respondent was recruited as foot constable vide ... he, thereafter, completed his training period successfully and remained posted at different places in the police department. the services of the respondent herein were terminated by the competent authority vide order no. sp gzr -() dated .. on the main charge of having involved in case fir no. dated .., registered under section ppc at the instance of si sho of the police station chator khand district ghizer. the respondent filed a departmental the said termination order before the aig headquarters, police. the appeal was dismissed vide order no. sp gzr -() dated .. the appellate authority. whe reupon, the respondent approached the chief court gilgit -baltistan by filing a writ petition bearing no. for the redressal of his grievance. the petition was accepted vide .. with the direction that the writ petitioner be rei nstated in service with back benefits for the period during which, he had not remained gainfully employed elsewhere. the appellant who were aggrieved of the order mentioned above moved this court in cpla no. which was disposed of in terms as follow s:- in view thereof, we without taking any exception to the order of chief court dispose of this petition with observation that the competent authority may, if so desire, initiate regular inquiry into the conduct of police official in accordance with law. dispose of. page the respondent filed a civil miscellaneous application for implementation of the .. the learned single -baltistan in writ petition no. the afore -reffered petition was allowed the chief court vide .. in terms as under: the petitioner has been re -instated in response to the judgment of this court dated .., which was upheld by the supreme appellate court on .., but the respondent no. in vi olation of court order without allowing back benefits. this petition is disposed of with the strict direction to the respondent no. for allowing back benefits to the petitioner as have been ordered by the court. petitioner can move afresh if deprived hi after reasonable time. petition disposed of accordingly. file the petitioner feeling aggrieved assailed aforesaid .. in cpla no. before this court. arguing the case, the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan has submitted that the impugned order is against facts and record and that the he submitted further that the matter of payment of back benefits was left to the discretion of competent authority and as such, learned chief court could not take up the matter and thereafter, direct the payment of back benefits. it has been argued further that the learned chief co urt exercised its jurisdiction illegally with material irregularity and the order has been passed without taking into consideration the actual controversy and as such the same is liable to be set aside. arguments heard and record perused. the trend and ten or of the .. mentioned above clearly reflects that the authority was only given the mandate to hold regular inquiry, if so desired. it nowhere dealt with page postponement of payment of back benefits till conclusion of inquiry if so initiate against the respondent herein. in view of judgment mentioned supra, there remains no room for doubt that the respondent is entitled to recover back benefits as per orders of this court dated and no exception can be taken to it. we have perused impugned order very carefully and found no illegality at all which may require interference. upshort of the whole exercise is that the impugned order is in accordance with law and never calls for any interference. the petition is dismissed. leave refused. chief