page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge judge. cpla no. mst. gumboori saleem khan, mulki khan mst. gul zareen katoor khan mulki khan residents of sher qillah tehsil punial district ghizer. petitioner appellant maherban shah bakdur. bakhdur khan jangi khan, residents of sher qillah tehsil punial district ghizer. respondent leave to the judgment decree dated -- whereby the learned for setting aside the impugned judgment decree by granting leave to appeal in favour of the petitioner appellant for the ends of justice, law and equity. present: ali nazar khan aor for the petitioner. date of hearing: --. judgment page dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj that the petitioner appellant preferred a revision petition before the but the same has been dismissed by upholding both the that during the pendency of revision petition before the --, the petitioner appellant submitted an application under order rule cpc for amendment of plaint and the learned chief court allowed the application. that after allowing application for amendment the learned chief court invited amended plaint from the petitioner appellant and after submission of amendment plaint the respondent also filed amended written sta tement. that the petitioner appellant raised factual point in this amendment application and in the light of application the learned chief court was bound to frame proper issues in the light of amended plaint, but the learned chief court has not bother page frame issue and given due opportunity to prove the case in the light of amendments, hence the judgment decree of the learned chief court dated -- is not maintainable and liable to be set aside. `that the respondent vehemently alleged in his writ ten statement that disputed property was gifted by the father of the petitioner appellant to the respondents, and the petitioner appellant challenged the gift deed and the learned trial court also framed issue no., but the espondents were failed to prove the factual of the gift in accordance with law but the learned chief court has not followed the mohammadan law, therefore, the judgments decrees of the learned lower courts are not maintainable and liable to be set aside. that accordingly to mohammad an law it is essential of a gift that there should be a declaration of a gift by the donor, a. an acceptance of gift express or implied by or on behalf of the done, b. delivery of possession of the subject of gift by the donor to the done as mentioned in aw. if these conditions are complied with the gift is complete. page that the respondent have failed to substantiate the gift in accordance with law, hence the judgments decrees of learned chief court, gb gilgit and two courts below are not maintainable and liable to be set aside. that all the courts below are failed to draw inference of law point of gift, hence the judgments decrees of all the courts below are not maintainable and liable to be set aside. that the respondent stated in his statement before he court that the disputed land is in possession of nam ely () akhbar shah () shukoor khan and () mehr ali. those persons are necessary party of the suit, but the learned civil hence great miscarriage of it is therefore, very humbly prayed that this appeal may graciously be accepted by converting leave to appeal into appeal and by setting aside the impugned judgment decree of the learned courts belo i.e. judgment decree of the learned chief court dated -- page judgment decree of the learned additional district -- judgment decree of learned civil -- to meet the ends of justice, law and equity. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?