page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. cpla no. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. abdul bari another. petitioners. provincial governme nt others respondent s. leave to appeal under artile of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance order against the impugned .. gilgit -baltistan service tribunal in service appeal no. wherby the learned tribunal has dismissed the appeal of petitioner appellant holding the same not maintainable and meritless. for setting aside the impugned judgment holding the same un -considered, misconceived, mis considerate against facts and law and against legal rights of petitioner appeallants converting this leave to appeal into an appeal for the ends of justice, law and equity. present: dated of hearing: --. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner were appointed against the vacant posts of foot constable bps vide .. and .. respectively. further contends that the petitioner were rendering their service in the police department with efficiently, honestly and to the entire satisfaction to their superior. he also contended that their department vide office orders no.s pd-() dated page .. and spd () dated .. have terminated their services by respondent no.. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said order filed first appeal before the respondent no.. since, no response received from the first appellate authority and after completion of statutory period, the petitioner filed appeal no. before the gilgit -baltistan service tribunal on the grounds that no notices were served to the petitioner before issuance of their term ination order, no charge was framed against the petitioner and they have been condemned unheard. he further submits that the termination orders of the services of the petitioner were based on baseless allegations, which was not supported by any material on record. he further contends that the orders of their services were competently and authorizedly issued purely on the basis of merits. the learned counsel for the petitioner also submits that the gilgit -baltistan service tribunal failed to exercise it .., therefore, the same is not maintainable and liable to set aside. we heard the learn ed counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the material of file and gone through the impugned judgment of learned service tribunal gilgit -baltistan. in our considered view the impugned judgment of the learned service tribunal gilgit -baltistan dated .. passed in service appeal no. is well reasoned and well founded as no illegality and page infirmity has been pointed out by the learned counsel for the petitioners. admittedly neither any vacancy was advertised in the newspaper for appointme nt nor the petitioner appeared before the selection committee in the test interview. the learned service tribunal has rightly held that the appointments were made in violation of the rules, law and procedure. no departmental appeal was filed by the pe titioners as claimed by the petitioners, which requires under section () of gilgit -baltistan service tribunal as the same is mandatory in nature and violation of it, is not tenable. in view of the above discussions, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. leave to appeal is refused accordingly. leave refused. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?