page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. (appellate jurisdiction) cpla. no. chief judge. -ud-din, judge. judge. ghazi johar sifadullah ibadullah aqeedullah sons of late serwar khan mst. tai nigar mst zar kuli mst. zaib un nisa daughters of late serwar khan village bubur tehsil punial district ghizer. petitioners. malik ashdar abdullah bubur tehsil punial district ghizer. respondent. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order read with relevant provisions of gilgit -blatistan supreme appellate court rules against the impugned -- single bench of learned chief court gilgit -baltistan in civil revision no. whereby the learned chief court has directed deputy commissioner ghizer vacate the suit sharp and seal the same in the name of chief court. for setting aside the impugned order holding the same illegal without jurisdiction, biased and hasty manner converting this leave to appeal an accepting the appeal for the ends of justice, law and equity. present: date of hearing: ---. judgment. muzaffar ali, --, the learned single -baltistan, whereby the learned single -baltistan chief court has directed the dep uty commissioner concerned to get vacate the suit shop and also to seal the same shop in the name of gilgit -baltistan chief court. page the brief facts of the case are as such that the present respondent filed a suit for specific performance of a contract befo re the learned civil the present petitioner filed first appeal before the learned district --, the learned civi but, the learned district the present petitioner filed civil revision petition no. against both the concurrent findings before the learned chief court ilgit-baltistan. the same is subjudice before the learned chief court, but during pendency of the same the impugned interim --, is passed against the present petitioners, which has been assailed through this leave to appeal, before this court. we, heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and asked him to explain, how an interlocutory order the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan can be challenged before this court as the supreme appellate court rules have no provision in this regard and the said rules only provide a leave to the final orders judgments decrees of the chief court gilgit -baltistan. in response to this observation, the learned counsel for the petitioner urged that the impugned orde apparently seems to be without jurisdiction and nullity in the eyes of law as such this court has powers to set aside the same without going into the procedural hurdles. this court, being the apex forum in the area have ample powers to ignore the procedu ral hurdle in the way of substantial justice. we are not convinced by the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the petitioners. the impugned order is not an order without jurisdiction and nullity. the learned single as such, we are of the opinion that the procedural hurdles cannot be ignored. the rules of this court do not allow the leave to any interim order the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. page hence, this leave to appeal is refused and the case in hand, is accordingly dismissed. chief