page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan, gilgit. cpla. no. provincial government others petitioners. muhammad arif ex-zonal chief nbp others respondents. present:- the advocate general gilgit-baltistan for the petitioners. ... the learned advocate general submits that during a clean up operation of arms ammunitions in the year to get rid of illegal arms ammunitions from the city keeping in view the law order situation the inhabitants of city were required to surrender their licensed arms ammunitions in circumstances. the respondent deposited his gun accordingly. the respondent approached the petitioner for the return of a bore rifle bearin no. made in czechoslovakia. he also submits that the respondent being aggrieved filed civil suit no. for recovery of the said gun or rs. as price of the gun in question. upon hearing suit was decreed in favour of the respondent by directing the petitioner to pay rs. as price of the gun vide .. which was upheld by the learned first appellate court as well as the learned chief court vide impugned .. and .. respectively, hence, this leave to appeal. per learned advocate general, the petitioner vide order no. ps adm-() dated .. constituted a committee comprising of the settlement officer gilgit, do fc, khayber page regiment, sp gilgit and capt. chitral scouts to clean up the city from arms ammunitions. the notices were issued in the name of public at large for return disposal of such items but the respondent did not come forward to the said gun. he finally contends that the learned chief court as well as the learned courts below fell in error in appreciating the above facts while passing the impugned judgments, therefore, the same are required to be set aside. we have heard the learned advocate general at length, perused the impugned .. passed in criminal revision no. by the learned chief court as well as the .. passed in civil first appeal no. and the .. the learned civil the learned advocate general could not point out any illegality infirmity in the said impugned judgments. in our considered view, the impugned .. passed in criminal revision no. by the learned chief court as well as of two courts below are well reasoned and well founded. we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. the leave is refused accordingly. consequently, the impugned .. passed in criminal revision no. by the learned chief court is affirmed. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge.