page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan branch registry skardu syed arshad hussain shah, cj wazir shakil ahmed, (against the .., the gb chief court, gilgit in writ petition no. nasibaayub ayub khan markunja tehsil district shigar (petitioner provincial government through the chief secretary gilgit baltistan, gilgit secretary education gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. director education, baltistan region, skardu secretary finance, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit deputy director education district shigar district accounts officer skardu (respondents present: for the respondents: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan. for the petitioner: .. judgment wazir shakil ahmed, judge the above titled cpla has been preferred by the petitioner being aggrieved with the judgment order the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, dated .. in writ petition no. wher eby, the learned chief court regretted to admit the petition fi led by the page present petitioner and the same was dismissed in limine, hence this leave to appeal. the admitted facts gathered rom the record of the case are that the petitioner was appointed as contract lady teacher in girls primary school shigarkhas rs. per month with immediate effect and until further orders subject to availability of funds vide office order bearing no. dde-( dated ... after about years, vide office .., the contract services of the petitioner was regularized and she was duly appointed as m.t teacher in bps -,against the vacant post of est in girls primary school shigar with immediate effect and until further orders. vide above office order, her ervice was to be governed under the terms and conditions laid down by the government, from time to time. the office of the answering respondent no. vide office .., withdrew the initial appointment order of the petitioner alongwith others ,incumbents on the basis of ineligible unfit for the posts held by them. the name of the petitioner in the above list stand at serial no. there is a letter bearing no. dde -sgr-() issued from the office of the deputy director sh igar respondent no. ,addressed to the director education baltistan region respondent no. which shows that the present petitioner has appeared before the interview scrutiny committee and page declared her fit for service by the interview panel but due to non production of professional certificate i.e ptc her initial appointment was withdrawn vide above mentioned ... the above letter further narrates that the petitioner has provided ptc certificate issued by the skill development council, the result declaration date is ... vide above letter dated .., the respondent o. has submitted case of the petitioner for consideration to resp ondent no. director education baltistan region. it is regretfully noted that the respondent o., vide a letter dated .., add ressed to the petitioner, conveyed her that due to her illegal initial appointment as mt lady teacher bps-, in education department and since she had not got the requisite professional qualification i.e ptc certificate for her reconfirmation as lady teacher, the appeal of the petitioner was hereby rejected and the petitioner wa therefore, declared unfit for reconfirmation due to lack of professional qualification. it is also an admitted tate of affair that truly the petitioner has got no ptc certificate when she was initially appointed as contract lady teacher in girls primary school shigar khas, vide office .., but oon after her appointment, the petitioner ha qualified the said ptc course and he ptc certificate wa duly issued in her fa vor, the result declaration date of the said pt course is shown to be page ..(session -), as has admitted by the respondent no. in his letter addressed to the respondent no. as has discussed above, we are of the firm opinion that the petitioner sho uld not have been thrown out from service, vide office order .., when the petitioner has already passed ptc examination in the year -. during th perusal of the ca se as well as course of arguments, it was also found that the petitioner had met with cologne cancer disease and during the course of which, she managed to get the ptc certificate well within time i.e in the year -. the only ground on which the learned chief court dismissed the writ petition of the petitioner was that of laches, this ground is also without any foot to stand with as the learned chief court has badly failed to appreciate the fact that the petitioner had to fight the lethal disease of cologne cancer for the next years and in the circumstances, no question of laches arise at all. in the light of what has been dis cussed above, we are of firm opi nion that the petitioner has qualified the ptc course well within time i.ein the year -, her appointment was wrongly rather illegally withdrawn on the basis of non -production of professional certificate i.e ptc certificate. we, therefore, are inclined to accept the instant cpla and convert the same into an appeal by setting a side the impugned judgment of the learned page chief court dated .., passed in writ petition no. with the direction to the answering respondent to reinstate the ser vices of the petitioner as lady teacher w.e.f the date of passing of short order of this court i.e ... the period from .. to the passing of short order of this court i.e .., shall be counted as leave without pay. announced .. chief (yes no