page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan (registry branch skardu) c.p.l.a. no. judge. abdul ghafoor son mst. fatima. mst. haleema daughters of late mst. hajira bibi markunja tehsil and sub division shigar district skardu petitioners. ghulam muhammad. bashir sons of ghulam ali. sanaullah. ghulam nabi. ghulam abbas sons of mst. hajira bibi markunja tehsil shigar. ghulam mehdi hulam muhammad marapi shigar. manager zari taraqqiyati bank, skardu respondents. leave to the judgment order of learned single bench gilgit baltistan chief court dated -- dismissed maintaining the petit ioners was -- and --, of learned district page present: senior advocate for petitioners. senior advocate for respondent. dated of hearing: --. judgment. muhammad ya qoob khan, .. this leave to appeal has been preferred by the plaintiff petitioner against the impugned judgment --, the learned single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan, where by the learned single bench has dismissed the appeal filed by the petitioner plaintiff (abdul ghafoor) etc, by maintaining the concurrent findings of the lower courts dated -- and --, hence this leave to appeal. the brief back ground of the litigation is that a ci vil suit bearing no. was filed by the petitioner on -- in civil court, wherein they seeking declaration with consequential relief to the extent of of share, in the in -heritance of mother and her paternal uncle (muhammad ali). on -- when the case was fixed for the examination of pw,s the petitioner plaintiff filed an application under order rule cpc, seeking amendment in the plaint. on -- the same party submitted another application for withdrawal of the previous one, but without pressing the withdrawal application, arguments on the application was heard on --, resultantly the learned trial court allowing the petitioner plaintiff to amend the plaint vide --. page respondent defendant discontent from the order and the same was called in question before the district court, skardu but during hearing of the revision petition, the petitioner plaintiff came to know that the learned trial court, while disposing of the application for amendment has mist akenly inserted mutation no. instead of mutation no. and hence, the learned counsel for petitioner plaintiff made a statement at bar, that he will have no objection if by accepting the said revision petition, setting aside the impugned -- learned counsel for the petitioner plaintiff submitted that he has consented to get the said order set aside with an understanding that this court shall direct the lower court to pass a fresh order after curing up the said clerical mistak e. anyhow, the case remanded back to the trial court. the learned counsel for the petitioner plaintiff requested the trial court for the correction of the clerical mistake but the learned trial court refused to do so, vide his --, sayi ng that such direction lacks in the remand order. this order was made impugned before the district but of no avail vide --. the said --, was challenged before the but again no frui full result achieved by petitioner plaintiff vide --. the petitioner plaintiff filed a fresh application under order rules cpc read with section seeking amendment to the extent of mutation numbers and attested on --. page the respondent defendant filed a revision petition seeking reversal of the same. the learned district court after hearing the parties reversed the order the learned trial court on --, being aggrieved and dissatisfied the pet itioner plaintiff filed an appeal before the -baltistan, whereby the learned single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan dismissed the appeal, with the observations, that no one can be vexed twice for the cause which has been di sposed of and has got finality hence this leave to appeal. we have carefully attended the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties, and minutely scrutinized all the judgments orders alongwith amendment applications dated --, --, and -. we found that the learned lower courts below failed to consider and apply its judicious mind to the main controversial points agitated by the petitioner plaintiff in his first application dated --. it is conceded by the lear ned counsel for the parties that no findings have been given by the courts to the extent of mutation no. and which was the subject matter to the amendment application dated --. it is also evident from the perusal of judgments orders that the learned trial court has mistakenly inserted mutation no. instead of mutation no. and while mutation no. was mentioned in subsequent amendment application dated --. which was not pressed by the counsel for plaintiff petition er, whereas concurrent findings of the learned lower courts mainly based upon subsequent amendment application dated --, while the initial application for amendment dated -- is still pend without adjudication and proper order. page unfortunatel neither the learned counsel for the parties, nor the courts below properly applied its judicious mind toward the first amendment application filed by the petitioner plaintiff on --. resultantly the litigants who bring their dispute to the law co urts with incidental hardship and expenses involved, do expect, a patent and judicious treatment of their cases and their determination by proper orders. a judicial order must be a speaking order, shall manifest that the court has applied her mind to the esolution of the issue involved for their proper adjudication and the ultimate result may be arrived at by a laborious effort, but lit has not been done in the instant case. the present petitioner again submitted application for amendment dated --, in the trial court, with the submission that the mutation no. and attested on -- and -- respectively, may be allowed to insert in the heading of plaint for the purpose of determining the real question in controversy. the learned civil it is proper to mention here that without going into the merits of the case we would lik to inspect the relevant provision of amendment enshrined in civil procedure code. so we have visited towards the relevant order rule c.p.c. which can be divided into two parts. the language used in the order rule cpc to the effect that all such amendments shall be made as may be necessary for purpose of determining the real question in controversy is mandatory in nature once the court decides that amendment is necessary for the said purpose page of determining the real question, the court is required buy law, to not only to allow an amendment application made by a party in that behalf, but is also bound to direct the amendment for the said purpose. in the cases filing under the first part the court has discretion to allow or not to allow the amendment, but under the second part once the court comes to a finding that the amendment is necessary for the purposes of determining the real question, it becomes the duty of the court to permit the amendment. in this case the two mutations referred abo ve reflects the inheritance claimed by the petitioner plaintiff and for which amendment seeks in the plaint is the real question for determining the controversy in between the parties. further it becomes the duty of the court to permit the amendment. but i this particular case the amendment which was allowed by the trial court is set aside by the court of appeal without going into the real question of controversy, which caused a great hardship for both the parties. moreover, proper place of procedure in any system of administration of all technicalities have to be avoided unless it be essential to comply with them on grounds of public policy. all rules of courts are nothing but provisions intended to secure the proper administration of justice, so that full power of amendment must be enjoyed and should always be liberally exercised. in this case it has not been done so. moreover, it is proper to mention here that when allowing th amendment in the plaint the respondent right should also be kept in view. page what has been stated above is, however, subject to very important condition that the nature of the suit in, so far as its cause of action is concerned is not changed by the ame ndment, whether it falls under the first part of order rule or in the second part because when the cause of action is changed, the suit itself would become different from the one initially filed. the original documents vide mutation no. and relied upon by the petitioner plaintiff, whether or not it pertains to inheritance of the petitioner plaintiff which will be determined by the trial court after inserted in the original plaint filed by the petitioner plaintiff, if allowed these amendmen ts would not have caused any embarrassment to the respondent defendant either in seeking and making similar amendments in their written statement. the inconvenience caused to the respondent as the provision itself visualizes is not only natural but wo uld ordinarily be occasioned in almost every case, that is why the law visualizes the award of adequate compensation as expenses which shall be paid to the respondent defendants. so far as the fresh application dated 24th september is concerned th same is fully identical with the contents of first application for amendment dated --, moved by the petitioner plaintiffs. it is well recognize principle of law that dismissal of application on technical grounds, without touching merits and with out determining right to page amend the pleading, is no bar for maintaining second application for the same purpose, as even under the provisions of section ii cpc or principles, there under, second application should only be barred, when earlier is decided on merits, but this contention is strongly opposed by the learned senior counsel advocate for respondent and submits, that plaintiff filed consecutive application under order rule cpc including the present application. once a decision iven on an application regarding the same subject matter similar application could not be filed again on the same ground. the learned counsel for respondent defendant has referred cases on the point of resjudicarta we have carefully examined the above contention and judgments referred by the learned counsel for respondent and formed our view that the case law referred by the counsel for respondent have no relevancy with the instant case, as such contention of learned counsel has no force at all. the ultimate result is, that the petitioner plaintiff proved a genuine case for amendment, which is permissible and should otherwise liberally allowed in view of the grounds high -lighted in the amendment application and would not create enormous difficulties or the petitioner plaintiffs. page in the light of the forgoing discussion this leave to appeal is converted into appeal and allowed. the impugned judgment is set aside. fresh application made by the petitioner plaintiff dated --, in the trial cour for amendment of their plaint is allowed, subject to payment of the rs. (five thousand) as cost of the amendment. the case is remanded back to the trial court, with direction that after the amendment of plaint the defendant respondent shall also, if they so request, be allowed a proper opportunity to amend their written statement. the case in hand may be expedite to avoid further delay for its disposal on merit. appeal is allowed.