page page of (prov. govt others muhammad rafiq others in the supreme appellate court gilgit -blatistan gilgit chief (against the .., the learned gilgit baltistan chief court in writ petition no. provincial govt. through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan secretary livestock agriculture gilgit -baltistan secretary services gilgit -baltistan director agriculture gilgit region deputy director agriculture diamer chilas petitioner muhammad rafiq shah zaman khan chowkidar bps office of dda office diamer mir azam syed nabi chowkidar bps fruit nursery manikal darel basher ahmed baja khan mali seed farm, biari darel afsar wali sameer khan mali bps seed farm bari, darel zubair gul zafaran malik bps fruit nursery nagaran niat khaista rehman ubaid chowkidar bps fruit nursery nagaran. zubair ahmed abir driver bps dd office chilas altaf hussain rahim shah chowkidar bps fruit nursery gummari respondent present: for the petitioner (s): the advocate general, gb aor date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: this leave to appeal arises out of an .. page page of (prov. govt others muhammad rafiq others the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in writ petition no. hereby the writ petition filed by the present respo ndents was allowed directing the present petitioner to regularize the services of the respondents. brief facts essential for disposal of this petition are that upon recommendation by the dsc the above respondent were appointed to the ir respective posts in a development scheme namely establishment of new and improvement of existing fruit nurseries in district diamer the petitioner no. made the appointments of the respondent on different dates i.e. respondent no. to on .. and respo ndents to on .. respectively. similarly, appointment of the respondent no. as driver was made on .. and respondent no. as chowkidar on 10th march, subsequently, upon completion of project, through a single order bearing no. dda-estt-() dated .. services of the respondent stood terminated. the respondent assailed the termination order issued by the office of the petitioner no. before the learned gb chief court and the learn ed gb chief court aft er hearing the parties, accepted the writ petition and directed the present petitioner to regularize the services of the respondent against the posts held by them before termination of their respective services. being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the judgment order of the learned gb chief court, the petitioner have now approached this court by way of the instant cpla. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan argued that the learned gb chief court failed to consider the points involved in the case and passed the judgment without giving any justifications based on legal and factual positions. he page page of (prov. govt others muhammad rafiq others further argued that the respondent could not claim regularization of their services as they were appoint ed purely on temporary basis against a development scheme project mentioned above and that after completion of the project, their services, being no more required, stood terminated. he maintained that respondents, being project employees, did not have vest ed right to claim regularization as there was no law rules regulating regularization of project employees. in support of his arguments, he referred several judgments of this the learned advocate general next argued that the impugned judgment was passed without taking into consideration the material facts and relevant law as well and was liable to be set aside. case heard and record as well as the impugned judgment perused. perusal of record revealed that in view of the administr ative approval of the finance division islamabad, the gilgit -baltistan finance department converted the project to non-developmental side with creation of posts against the said project on ... the respondent claimed that their contract appointments were made after due observance to the procedures method prescribed under the rules, as such their services deserved regularization against created posts. they further claimed that when the departmental authorities showed their reluctance, the respondent resorted to legal remedy before the learned chief court and succeeded in getting the directives as prayed for. the respondent further claimed in their rit petition before the learned chief court that, the finance division islamabad created posts against various projects in gilgit -baltistan which were converted from page page of (prov. govt others muhammad rafiq others development side to non -development al and the employees working against those projects were regularized. they further claimed that upon directives of the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan in writ petition no. similar project employees in live stock department were also regularized, as such, the respondents, on the same analogy, should have been regularized, but the concerned department with malafide intentions did not regularize their services, thus they were discriminated by treating them differently. it is observed that in view of contractual appointments of respondent made through a proper dsc as well as conversion of the project with creation of posts, the respondent deserved to be considered for regularization of their services. we further observed that, as claimed by the respondents, after conversion of other projec ts into non- developmental side with the alleged creation of posts, if the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan had regularized services of project employees of other departments against those posts, then the authorities have excluded rejected the present respondent which is a clear discrimination to the present respondents. law demands equal treatment amongst equal without favoritism and nepotism and the superior courts of gilgit -baltistan as well as pakistan from time to time have been issuing directives for elimination of discrimination from all governmental non-governmental institutions. on the issue of discrimination, we rely upon a case having direct relevancy to the case in hand reported as plc (c.s) entitled qayum khan divisional forest officer mardan and others. the relevant portion is reproduced below: page page of (prov. govt others muhammad rafiq others the present appellant was appointed in the year on contract basis in the project after completion of all the requisite codal formalities, when on .., the project was taken over by kpk government. it appears that the appellant was not allowed to continue after the change of hands of the project. apart from above, during perusal of record of the case, we came across with a copy of the termination order. in order to high light the grounds which necessitated termination of services of the respondents, we reproduce the relevant excerpt of termination order. urdu language is translated into english language. you are aware that your appointment was made under establishment of new and improvement of existing fruit nurseries in district diamer. the period of the project was of years and the same is ending on 30th june, in order to bring these posts on permanent footing s, this department has submitted a pc -iv for approval. however, through this notice, you are informed that after 30th june, you will not be considered employees of agriculture department diamer. the sentence in order to bring these posts on permanent footings, this department has submitted a pc -iv for approval gives an implied hope expectation to the respondent that in case of approval of pc -iv, they would be considered. otherwise, why the authorities of agriculture department diamer felt it necessary to bring into knowledge of the respondent that a pc -iv was submitted for creation of posts. this sentence in ther words, gives a sense that regularization of services of the respondent was conditioned with approval of pc -iv. however, we understand that after conversion of the project to non -developmental side with creation of posts, intention of the department al authorities of the concerned department was changed. page page of (prov. govt others muhammad rafiq others the upshot of the above observations is that we did not find any illegality, irregularity or infirmity in the .. the learned gb chief court in writ petition no. which could call for interference of this court. consequently, leave in the cpla is refused and the judgment so passed is maintained. the petitioner are directed to regularize services of the respondent from the date of institution of writ petit ion before the learned chief court. the intervening period between date of termination of their services and the date of regularization of their services shall be treated as leave without pay. these were the reasons for out short .., wh ich is reproduced below: the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan has been heard. for the reasons to be recorded later, the above cpla no. along with civil misc no. is dismissed and the .. the learned chief court, gb in writ petition no. is maintained chief (yes no