page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at regist ary branch skardu. c.p.l.a no. mr..rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. mr.. all residents of mouza shilla tehsil and sub division skardu distrtict through representatives () muhammad abdul karim () muhammad ali abdullah residents of village shilla tehsil and district skardu. petitioner appellants. all residents of ohallah kricko mouza doro tehsil and sub division skardu district skardu through representatives () lamberdar ghulam haider () haji ahmed safar ali () rustam haji abdu residents of kricko doro tehsil and district skardu. respond ents defendants. leave to the judgment decree dated --, the learned member chief court gilgit -baltistan camp at skardu. prersent: mr.munir ahmed advcoate alongwith mr.ghulam haider aor for petitioners. mr.muhammad issa sr.advocate for the respondents. page date of hearing: --:- judgment: the issue was arried twice up to the learned chief court. finally, this appeal before this court, as we have converted the leave to appeal into appeal by granting the leave to appeal. the facts giving rise to this appeal are as such that, the present respondent plaintiff filed representative suit no. before the learned court of civil with the exception that the villagers of broqchat and sirmik having no cattle -shed in the said pasture. the present petitioner defendant without any right over the pasture are trying to interfere illegally, into the pastures, consequently the defendant are liable to be restrained from interference into the pastures under the sui perpetually. the learned trial they denied the version taken by the plaintiff in page the plaint and contended that, the defendant have equal rights over the pasture with the plaintiff and the defendant also enjoying the grassing rights alongwith the plaintiff since time immemorial. the learned trial court proceeded with the suit, framed issues parties adduced evidence documentary as well as oral pro and contra and finally the learned trial the present appellant being dissatisfied from the decree against them filed 1st appeal before the learned court of district the learned district the appellant being dissatisfied with the concurren findings made by both the courts below. opted to get a favorable judgment from the learned chief court gilgit baltistan through revision petition against the impugned decrees but failed to convince the learned chief court also on merits. the learned chie court disagreed to frustrate the concurrent findings of the learned courts below and dismissed the revision petition. the appellant again felt themselves aggrieved, hence this appeal before this court, against the concurrent findings of learned lower co urts below. we heard the learned counsel for the parties. since the lower courts, from learned trial court up to the learned chief court, are at consonance and have passed concurrent findings as such, we asked page the learned counsel for the appellant to poi nt out a material issue of law, which has been over sighted by the courts below and convince us that, if the same was considered and determined by them, the decision of the case would have been turn in favour of the appellants. the learned counsel in resp onse, referred the documents (i) exh.-p-a, (ii) exh -p-b (iii) exh -p-c and urged that, the learned chief court has amended the decree the learned lower courts and has made the documents rule of the court without going into legal sanction of the sa me and the trial court as well as the 1st appellate court have also relied upon the same documents without making any legal inquiry about genuineness of the same. we visited through the documents which are pertaining to revenue record, whereby the grassin rights over the disputed pasture have been determined.the documents are admissible in evidence and reliance could be made on the same unless better documentary evidence is produced by the appellant in rebuttal. we noticed that no iota of evidence on th record of the case referred by the appellant to prove the documents to be forged or concocted, rather the learned counsel failed to point out any rebuttable plea made by the appellant in the written statement. consequent upon, the learned counsel for he petitioner does not attract our judicial wisdom to interfere with the concurrent findings of the learned courts below as this court is not supposed to scrutinize issues on page facts unless the findings of learned courts on a fact gives birth to mis-interpr etation of a substantial law point which might turn the result. resultantly, the learned counsel for the petitioner failed to substantiate his case as such, the appeal is dismissed and the concurrent findings decrees of the courts below are maintained. the appeal is dismissed. date of reasoning: --