page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cpla no. ishaque enterprises others. cpla no. basharat hussain others cpla no. shaheen trade international etc. cpla no. nazir enterprises etc. cpla no. muhammad iqbal and others. cpla no. ali trading company etc. cpla no. mir tariq mehmood others. cpla no. rakaposhi traders etc. under objection no. karakuram enterprises etc. cpla no. rabbani traders etc. petitioner judgment debtor s. the national bank of pakistan respondent decree holder. civil leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, against the judgment .. the division bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan in civil misc. no. page appl ication for clarification of .. the honorable court in the above referred civil leave to appeal alongwith ten others civil petitions for leave to appeal. present:- to .. dated of hearing: --. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .the above petitions were heard together as these arisen out of a common judgment in cm. no. on a common question of law and facts vide cfa no. and as all of them have been preferred in civil appeals in the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan against the jud gments orders dated .. the same court for review. the learned division bench, chief court vide impugned judgments in cm. no. dated .. were pleased to accept the said review petitions partia lly and accordingly set aside he impugned judgment in cfa no. passed on .. holding that the banking -baltistan council through its minister in charge and the orders were issued by the deputy secre tary law. resultantly, the proceeding and orders made khurshid alam as banking the appeals bearing nos at para no. of the said judgment on the subject of jurisdiction ha ve no legal force, hence dismissed. the learned counsel for the petitioner argued mainly on the point of jurisdiction. they contend ed that the banking court has not vested the jurisdiction under the mandatory provisions of the financial institution recovery of finance) ordinance hence, the order of the banking court passed thereto was void ab-initio and arbitrary in the eyes of law. similarly, the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan has fell in error and has not appreciated that the learned district judge, -non- judice, consequently, the impugned decrees are also void ab initio and liable to set aside. they further contended that both the district court and banking court were not established in accordance with law and their presiding officers were also not have not been appointed by the federal government in pursuance of the mandatory provi sion of the financial institution (recovery of finance) ordinance hence, the page orders judgment rendered by them are quorum -non-judice and not sustainable and liable to set aside. consequently, they prayed that the impugned judgment in cm no. ated .. the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan be set aside by declaring that the impugned ex -party decrees and the ir execution orders passed thereto against the petitioner by the banking court are void ab -initio as the same were pas sed without any jurisdiction and lawful authority. on the other hand, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respo ndents national bank of pakistan contended that the orders judgments the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan are well reasoned and according to law. he furthers submits that banking courts were established in accordance with law and their presiding officers were also competently appointed as after promulgation of the gilgit baltistan, (empowerment self governance) orde r, the authority of the appointment rests with the gilgit -baltistan council under se rial and of the (iii) schedule of the said order. he lastly, contended that the counsel for he petitioner could not point out any infirmity and illegalit in the impugned judgments in cm. no. dated .., the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan, hence, the petitions for leave to appeal be dismissed and the impugned .. of the learne chief court, gilgit baltist an passed in cm. no. be maintained. page we have heard the learned counsels for both the parties, perus ed the record and gone through he gilgit baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, and in our considered opinion, no illegality and infirmity has been pointed out by the learned counsel for the petitioner in the impugned judgment in cm. no. dated .. the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan. consequently, he petitions are converted into appeal and the same are dismissed. the impugned judgments of the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan dated .. is maintained. all appeals are dismissed. announced on: ... chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?