page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. cpla. no. abdul raziq rahim noor jutial tehsil district gilgit. petitioner. mst. khoshab jumma widow of atta through legal heirs ali ahmed jan and others mouza jutial tehsil and district gilgit. respondents. leave to appeal under article gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order by granting this etition for leave to appeal converting into an appeal while setting aside the impugned .. the chief court gilgit -baltistan. present: nemo for the parties. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana mu hammad shamim, cj ..the case has repeatedly been called but neither the parties nor their counsels are in attendance today. the perusal of the record reveals that notices have been issued to the parties and the same have also been served upon them properly. consequently, the petition is liable to be dismissed for non -prosecution, we, however, want to decide this petition on merit as well. we perused the record of the case. the respondent filed a civil suit no. in the court of learned civil which upon hearing vide .. was dismissed declaring the same as vague and not being proved. the respondent feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the judgment of learned trial court gilgit filed ci vil first appeal no. before the learned chief court for setting aside the said impugned judgment of the learned civil page court gilgit. whereby, the appeal of the respondent was accepted vide .. and the impugned .. the learned civil the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal for setting aside the impugned .. and to maintain the .. pas sed by the learned civil the brief facts of the petition are that the plaintiff is a resident of jutial gilgit and her ex -husband namely has effected second marriage. the suit land situated at namely mukhtiar alyas bakhtawar by the then assistant political agent vide .. passed in file no. the son of the respondent no. was given possession of the said land. later on th suit land was acquired by the government and the possession of the property in question given to armed forces of pakistan. the son of the respondent no. was then serving in the northern scouts and he went to skardu on account of his duty and he died omewhere at skardu. consequently, the respondent no. had become helpless and the petitioner while taking benefit of the helplessness of the respondent no. got prepared mutation of the said property in his name with the collusion of revenue authoritie s. the petitioner also got prepared the award no. dk. glt dated .. amounting to rs. (six lac ninety one thousand nine hundred and fifty five only) of the disputed property page in his name. the preparation of mutation and consequent thereto the preparation of award in the name of the petitioner was the result of fraud played against the rights of the respondent no. the respondent no. submitted that the mutation as well as the award had been prepared through fraudulent means he nce the both are liable to be set aside. the learned trial court while deciding the suit did not examine the important statement documents and passed the judgment in a hasty manner and discuss the issues to its convenient by picking and choosing irrelevant and un -important facts. we have perused the record of the case file thoroughly and gone through the impugned .. in cfa.no. the learned chief court as well as the judgment decree dated .. the learned civil the careful perusal of the record of the case file reveals that the learned chief court has rightly set aside the judgment decree of the trial court while accepting the appeal of the respondent no. as the judgment of the trial court was the result of misconception of law and misreading of the facts of the case. consequently, we found no infirmity and illegality in the impugned .. the learned chief court in cfa. no. no interference is warranted into it in the interest of justice. in view of the above discussions we convert this petition into an appeal and page the same is dismissed. the impugned .. the learned chief court is mainta ined. the petition is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?