page page of (prov. govt. luqman wali shah faisal 5in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit chief govt. of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gb secretary home gilgit -baltistan d.g. gilgit -baltistan scouts gilgit dy. superintendent armed reserve gb gilgit superintendent armed reserve force, gb, gilgit inspector general of police, gb, gilgit petitioner luqman wali badin khan darel, district diamer respondent cpla no. govt. of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gb secretary home gilgit -baltistan d.g. gilgit -baltistan scouts gilgit dy. superint endent armed reserve gb gilgit superintendent armed reserve force, gb, gilgit inspector general of police, gb, gilgit. .. petitioner shah faisal abdul saboor chilas district diamer respondent present: for the petitioners: the advocate general gb (in both the above cplas) for the respondents: advocate (in both the above cplas date of hearing: .. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: since both the above civil petit ions for leave to appeal carr ies similar facts and common question of law we through this single judgment intend to dispose of both the cplas directed against judgment dated .. the learned gilgit page page of (prov. govt. luqman wali shah faisal baltistan service tribunal, whereby, service appeal no. and service appeal no. filed by the respondent were accepted thereby directing the petitioner to reinstate the respondent with effect from the respective dates of termination of their services. cpla no. (govt. of gb others luqman wali) facts as available on record are that vide office .., respondent was inducted in police service gb as foot constable bs-. consequent the appointment order, the respondent joined his duties and started to perform as such. the appointment of the respondent, amongst others, was made in accordance with the law i.e., through adopting all legal formalities prescribed under the relevant law rules. subsequently, on 4th october, the petitioner no. (dy. superintendent armed reserve gb, gilgit) terminated services of the respondent on the ground of being deserter from gb couts. being aggrieved, the respondent claimed to have submitted a departmental representation to the authorities of police department, gb followed by further applications and personal visits to get his departmental representation decided, but remained unsuccessful. thereafter, the respondent invoked the jurisdiction of the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal by way of a service appeal which was accepted. cpla no. (govt. of gb others shah faisal facts as available on record are that vide office .., respondent was inducted in police services gb as foot constable bs -. consequent to the appointment order, the respondent joined his duties and started to perform as such. the appointment of the responde nt, amongst others, was made in accordance with the law i.e., page page of (prov. govt. luqman wali shah faisal by adopting all legal formalities prescribed under the relevant law rules. subsequently, on .., the petitioner no. (dy. superintendent armed reserve gb, gilgit) terminated services the respondent on the ground of being deserter from gb scouts. being aggrieved, the respondent claimed to have submitted departmental representation to the authorities of police department, gb followed by further applications and personal visits to get is departmental representation decided, but remained unsuccessful. thereafter, the respondent invoked the jurisdiction of the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal by way of a service appeal which was accepted. now both the judgments the lear ned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal have been assailed by the petitioner by way of the above civil petitions for leave to appeal. the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan contended that the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal badly failed to apply its judicial mind while deciding the appeals both on the facts and grounds that respondent were deserter from armed force which attributed a criminal liability to them; hence they did not deserve to be taken back in employme nt of a disciplined force. he next argued that respondent in cpla deserted from police during training from rtc and it was not possible to make him present for inquiry. that similarly respondent in cpla was behind the bar on the charge of desertion from gb scouts and it was not possible to hold inquiry. he next maintained that as far as exercising of wrong jurisdiction by petitioner no. (dy. superintendent armed reserve) is concerned, he was duly delegated the powers by igp to exercise powers under rule of police rules whereas, the page page of (prov. govt. luqman wali shah faisal learned service tribunal without taking into account this fact went on to pass the impugned judgment. the learned ag, gb next argued that the learned service tribunal did not advert to the is sue of limitation as the service appeals were hopelessly time barred and condoned the delay of a considerable period on a flimsy pretext. with regard to the question of taking back into employment a similar placed person namely abdul hakeem the learned, ag, gilgit baltistan argued that his case was different and could not be taken as a precedent for its application to the cases in hand. on the basis of his above submissions, the learned ag, gb prayed for setting aside the impu gned judgment to meet the ends of justice. conversely, the learned counsel for the respondent defended the impugned judgment by reiterating the arguments advanced by him before the learned service tribunal and prayed for upholding the same by this court. we have considered the arguments advanced from both the sides. we have also gone through the record, the impugned judgment the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal and the relevant rules of police rules, with a view to reach fair concl usion, it would be more appropriate and in the interest of the probable questions are as below: -. (i) whether it was responsibility of the respondent to inform the police authorities at the time of their induction that they were deserters? page page of (prov. govt. luqman wali shah faisal (ii) whether on the ground of desertion, legal formalities in terms of conducting an inquiry and issuance of show cause could be dispensed with? (iii) whether a power vested in a particular authority could be exercised by another authority without specific delegation that too having a lower post and grade to the former? (iv) whether after pardon to and exoneration from the criminal charges by former departme nt the respondent were still barred from availing the opportunity of employment in other department s? (v) whether the learned service tribunal committed any illegality in condoning the delay in institution of service appeal? whether abdul hakeem, who was also a deserter and similarly placed person was allowed to continue his service and if so then what was the effect of this on the case of respondents? now we would like to deal with all the questions separately as unde r. (a) with regard to question (i), it is clarified that it is the responsibility of police to collect the personal information of each selected candidate before issuance of appointments order. it is known to the police authorities that antecedent verification is a must for all appointments with impunity and other civil armed uniform force do get the character of candidates verified by police across the country at the time of recruitment whom they intend to recruit. but it is astonishing to note hat in these cases the police authorities did not verify the character personal information of selected page page of (prov. govt. luqman wali shah faisal candidates. the learned ag has also not shown any rule whereby such antecedent verification is not required by police department. (b) with regard to quest ion (ii) the stance of the learned advocate general, gb is not tenable. the proper course was to issue notices via print media as is the normal course in all services, but record does not show such effort was ever made by police department, gb. the reason is that no person can be condemned unheard and decision without notice is doomed to crumble. non issuance of notice militates against due process and is void on its own strength. we are fortified on this by the following dicta of the supreme court of pakis tan. scmr entitled muhammad ha nif secretary to govern ment to government of pakistan ministry of interior and another. the relevant paragraph is reproduced below; it has been held in sajjad hussain bhatti the post master general, pakistan post offic e, metropolitan, s.s.c. karachi and others, plc (c.s) that, ex parte inquiry conducted against accused civil servant without giving opportunity of defence would vitiate the order of dismissal from service recorded against him. the demand of the learned ag has also not shown any rule where -under notice or inquiry could be dispensed with under circumstances of the cases in page page of (prov. govt. luqman wali shah faisal hand though any such rule, if any, being violative of due process would be of no effect. (c) coming to question (iii), though the learned advocate general submitted that such powers were delegated to dy. superintendent reserve armed, but no proof to this effect has been produced neither before the learned service tribunal nor before this court. the only document found on record of file is an office order delegating financial powers to dsp striking force gilgit. the said office order is reproduced herein below: no. igp -() dated the 21st september, office of the inspector general of police northern areas, gilgit office order -gazetted staff, contingencies and controlling officer for the purpose of ta da from the rank of fc to sip respect of northern areas armed reserve force w.e. .. contents of the above letter itself showed that the powers delegated were with regard to ta da. under the garb of such an ambiguous office order, nobody could be left scot -free to exercise the powers of appointin terminating authority or such other powers of his own choice by taking undue benefit of such office orders. rule of the police rules, which is relevant is reproduced below: .. discharge of inefficient: --a constable who is found unlikely to prove an efficient police officer may be discharged by the page page of (prov. govt. luqman wali shah faisal superintendent at any time within three years of enrollment. there shall be no an order of discharge under this rule with respect to employment of the respondent with other departments after discharge from the gilgit baltistan scouts, it is observed that the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal rightly held that pardon discharge of the respondent amounted to their acquittal; as such they were entitled to employment in other departments. we next advert to the question of condoning the limitation by the learned service tribunal by taking support from the judgment of the it can be said that in view of following judgment, it rightly condoned the delay in institution of the service appeals holding that no limitation cou ld run against an order which was passed without hearing and issuance of notice to the party concerned. for the sake of brevity, the relevant paragraph from the said judgment is reproduced below: scmr mst. rehmat bibi others pannu khan others if an impugned order has been passed without hearing and notice to a party whose presence was other necessary before the authorities concerned, then the order will be nullity in the eye of law, and no question of limitation would arise as far as the last question of allowing abdul hakeem, who was also a deserter during the training and similarly placed person is concerned, we noticed from the record that a wireless message containing list of deserters was forwarded from the office of sp principal, p.r.t.c. n.as gilgit to ssp diamer, chilas for taking disciplinary action page page of (prov. govt. luqman wali shah faisal against them. the said list also contained name of abdul hakeem. in addition, his name was also included in the termination order, whereas, this recruit was allowed to continue his services. to this effect, the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan argued that after clearance from the concerned authorities, he was allowed to continue his services. this assertion of the learned ag, gilgit -baltistan is not tenable in the cases of the present respondent too, the concerned authorities vindicated them by pardoning followed by discharge. as such, it can safely be held that the treatment extended to the respondent on different footings was tainted wit malafides and discrimination, while this practice of discrimination amongst equally placed person should be discouraged so as to avoid violation of articles of the government of gilgit -baltistan order, read with the constitution of pakistan which gu aranty equal treatment amongst equals. while dealing with the issue of equality amongst equals, the .a sharwani others govt. of pakistan through secretary finance division islamabad others scmr has held as under: that equal protection of law does not envisage that every citizen is to be treated alike in all circumstances, but it contemplates that persons similarly situated or similarly placed are to be treated alike resultantly, we have come to the conclusion that in view of the factual and legal position, the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal has given sound reasons in the impugned judgment. having not been able to find any illegality and infirmity in the imp ugned judgment, do not find it a fit case for interference. consequent thereto, leave in page page of (prov. govt. luqman wali shah faisal the both the above civil petitions for leave to appeal nos. of is refused. the impugned judgments are maintained with the directions to comply with sam by the petitioners. the above were reasons for our short order dated .. containing same grounds. one of which is reproduced below: the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan has been heard. for the reasons to be recorded later, the leave in the cpla no. is refused. the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal, gilgit in appeal no. being without any illegality or infirmity, stands maintained. chief (yes no