page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. the state others petitioners. ehsanullah others respondents. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the state. johar advocate for complainant. manzoor ahmed advocate and -on- record on behalf of the respondent accused. date of hearing: ... date of detail order: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this criminal appeal for cancellation of bail has arisen out of the impugned order by the learned chief court whereby the bail to the respondent accused was allowed. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned order filed th is leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case was heard on ... briefly, the facts of the case are that on .. an fir no. under section (d) ppc was registered against the respondent at police station chilas district diamer on the report of complainant namely altaf son of bakha. similarly, fir nos. and were also lodged by the page state under section of arm ordinance. the complainant st ated that the deceased imam malik was in chilas in connection with attending a case in the court of sessions at about am alongwith eye witnesses namely najeeb son of safa and musa son of abdul jabbar were present in the premises of naki market when suddenly accused altaf son of muhammad tayar, ehsanullah son of muhammad tayar, nadeem son of muhammad ghani and shafi son of ghafoor attacked imam malik with lethal arms and murdered him. whereas the fir lodger ran away to find safety but ac cused abujah son of mirbaz and muhammad ghani son of mir khan attacked him with fire arms and injured him. in pursuance of the said fir the accused were arrested and arms used in commission of murder of deceased imam malik and injured altaf son of bakha we re recovered from the accused respondents. after completion of investigation, police has submitted challan in the competent court of law. the case was fixed for framing charge but on one or other pretext the accused have been delaying the case and charge has yet not been framed. later on, the accused had successfully got transferred the case from the court of sessions the respondent accused filed bail petition in the learned trial court and after rejection of the said bail petition, the respondent filed another bail petition before the learned chief court which upon hearing was allowed. the co -accused namely abujah and muhammad ghani were granted bail by the learned judicial page magistrate chilas agai nst which the petitioner filed bail cancellation before the learned sessions being aggrieved the petitioner complainants filed bail cancellation against the co accused before the learned chief court which is still pending adjudication. the learned advocate general alongwith learned counsels appearing on behalf of complainant submit that it was a day light murder case. the fir of the said offence has been registered promptly and the accused ave been nominated charged directly by the eye witnesses prosecution witnesses attributing them specific role in commission of the offence. they reiterate that the names of the accused were nominated in the fir which was registered without any delay. the respondent accused were arrested and the weapons of the murder of deceased imam malik and injured person altaf were recovered from them on their pointation. they further submit that the case fixed for framing of charge of the accused respondent yet the respondent adopted delaying tactics from day one of the case. subsequently, they were succeeded to get transfer their case from the court of sessions they submit that the accused respondent late on moved bail application before the learned sessions .. in bail application no. per learned counsels the respondent accused being page aggrieved filed civil misc. no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was allowed on the ground that no postmortem report was conducted by observing that the number of injuries can not be determined at the moment which makes the case of respondent a case of further inquiry. on the contrary, the postmortem of the deceased was carried out and the copy of the postmortem report is available on record of the case file. the statement of the injured eye witness namely altaf was corroborated by the pws i.e. muhammad musa and mohbat regardi ng the attack on the said altaf by respondent and others with fire arms upon the deceased. per learned counsels there are sufficient material on record to believe that the respondent have committed the said brutal murder of deceased and injured the compl ainant. consequently, the impugned order is not sustainable. on the other hand, the learned counsels for the respondent supports the impugned .. passed in criminal misc. by the learned chief court. they contend that the tatements of pws be relied upon in toto. it can not be divided into parts similarly one part can not be relied upon by ignoring the other part. per learned counsels the co -accused have been granted bail by the learned judicial magistrate relying upon such divided statements of pws, hence, the main accused are also entitled for bail on the principle of consistency. the witnesses of locality could not be associated as provided under section cr. pc. the respondent have been falsely implicated in this case by page the police. no postmortem was carried out by the respondent which also make the case doubtful. per learned counsels the statements of pws involving the petitioner in doubtful manner in the commission of alleged offence itself make the case of further inquiry. they pray that the impugned order may graciously be maintained to secure the ends of justice. we have heard the learned counsels or the respective parties at length, tentatively perused the material on record of the case file and gone through the impugned order the learned chief court. we have also perused the statements recorded under section cr.pc of the injured pers on and two other eye witnesses who attributed the active roles of the respondent and their co -accused which prima facie connect the respondent in commission of alleged offence. we agree that he provision of section cr.pc are not punitive in nature as there is not concept of punishment before judgment. the question of grant or refusal of bail is, however, to be determined judiciously leaving regard to the facts and circumstance of each case. where the prosecution satisfies the court, that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the accused has committed the crime falling in prohibitory clause of section cr.pc, the court must refuse bail. on the other hand where the accused satisfies the court hat there are no reasonable grounds to believe that he is guilty of such offence, then the court must release him on bail. for arriving at the conclusion as to whether or not there are reasonable grounds to believe that page the accused is guilty of offence pun ishable with the death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for ten years, the court will not conduct a preliminary trial inquiry but will only make a tentative assessment, i.e. will look at the material collected by the police for and against the accuse and prime facie satisfied that some tangible evidence can be offered which, if left unrebutted, may lead to the inference of guilt. deeper appreciation of the evidence and circumstances appearing in the case is neither desirable not permissible at bail tage. so, the court will not minutely examine the merits of the case or plea of defence at bail stage. in our considered view, the tentative assessment of the material on record and going through the statements of injured person and other eye witnesses recorded under section cr. pc specific roles attributed to the respondent in committing the alleged murder, prima facie, there are sufficient grounds to believe that the respondent were involved in the commission of alleged offence. in view of the above discussions, this appeal was allowed vide our short ... consequent thereto, the bail granted to the respondent namely ehsanullah son of muhammad tayar, altaf son of muhammad tayar, nadeem son of muhammad ghani and shafi son abdul ghafoor residents of thor, tehsil chilas district diamer were cancelled. the impugned .. passed in criminal misc. by the learned chief court was set aside. the order of transfer of case from sessions we, page therefore, order that the case in hand be transferred from the court of district sessions the cases registered vide firs nos. under section of arm ordinance submitted in the court of judicial magistrate for trial are also ordered to be transferred to the learned district sessions our observations and order for cancellation of bail are tentative in nature and the learned trial court has to proceed with conduct the trial expeditiously, hear and decide the case independently in accordance with law. these were the reasons of our short ... the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?