page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. mst. rabia another petitioners. the state respondent. present: malik kifayat -ur-rehman advocate alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. mst. rabia (petitioner) is present in person. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for respondent. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... the learned advocate general present in court waived notice. it has been pointed out by the office of this court that this leave to appeal is barred by time for a period of days. the civil misc no. for condonation of delay has been filed by the petitioner s. we have gone through the said application for condonation of delay. the reasons grounds given in the application in question a re plausible and reasonable, hence, the same is allowed. consequently, the office objections are overruled. this criminal petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in cr. misc. no. the learned chief court whereby th said cr. miscellaneous filed by the petitioner was dismissed being devoid of merit. page briefly, the facts of the instant proceedings are that the complainant namely abdul wakeel has filed written application in police station thore, district diamer con tending therein that on the night between -. his daughter mst. rabia was abducted by one sanaullah and imran on the vehicle and forcibly taken away to unknown place. on .., the petitioner has contracted nikah marriage with sanaullah at dir bala kpk. the nikah was solemnized by nikah registrar (nikah khuwan) namely muhammad dawood. the petitioner no. i.e. mst. rabia recorded her statement under section cr.pc alongwith affidavit before the assistant commissioner dir bala to the ffect of her free will for solemnizing such marriage. on .., the petitioner filed criminal misc. no. under section -a for quashment of fir no. registered in police station thore under section -b, ppc before the learned chief court which upon hearing was dismissed, hence, this leave to appeal. malik kifiyat -ur-rehman learned counsel for the petitioner alongwith mst. rabia (petitioner) is present in court today. the petitioner was asked as to whether she was abducted by accused sanaullah and imran or she contracted her marriage with free will? on court question, she stated that nobody has abducted her and she contracted her marriage with her own consent and free will. per learned counsel, the fir no. registered at police station thore, district diamer or any proceeding if initiated in the court of law against the petitioner be quashed. page we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned order the learned chief court. the petitioner mst. rabia has stated in this court as well as before the local magistrate and in the learned chief court that nobody has abducted her. she contracted marriage with sanaullah with her consent and free will. to continue criminal proceedings against the petitioner after above statement of mst. rabia would be an abuse to the process of court. the impugned order the learned chief court is not tenable in law being not well reasoned and well founded. in view of the above discussions, this petition is converted into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. in cr. misc. no. the learned chief court is set aside. the fir no. under section -b ppc registered at police station thore, district diamer and or proceedings, if any, pending in the learned trial court arise out of said fir are hereby quashed. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.