page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. safdar ali son of meharban nagral, district gilgit petitioner. the state respondent. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general for respondent. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in criminal misc. no. the learned chief court whereby the said criminal miscellaneous filed by the petitioner was dismissed, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner was apprehended under section -b, -a, -a, -b ppc, ee (iv), -n, (g) (ii), anti-terrorism act, vide fir page no. dated .. at police stat ion city gahkuch, district ghizer. the petitioner was under surveillance, when found and detected in organizing balawaristan national front (bnf) which is a ban organization headed by one abdul hameed who is involved in anti -state activities and is in self exile. the petitioner involved to transport anti -state literature to gilgit -baltistan and to distribute the said literature among the members of bnf and other like minded people with intent to destabilize the country. the petitioner being aggrieved filed criminal misc. application no. for grant of post arrest bail under section cr. pc read with section -d of the anti -terrorism act, in the learned trial court. upon hearing, the learned trial court dis missed the said application vide .. which was upheld by the learned chief court vide impugned .., hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner is in nocent and has falsely been implicated in the case. he also submits that the allegations against the petitioner are general, vague and ill -found. he also submits that there are no reasonable grounds to believe that the petitioner has committed a non-baiabl offence as alleged. per learned counsel the fir against the petitioner was lodged without resorting to the provisions of section cr. p.c, hence, the subsequent proceedings are illegal and without lawful authority. the registration of a criminal case by an ordinary police official involving the petitioner under sections page -b, -a, -a, -b ppc is without jurisdiction except upon a complaint made by the central government or the provincial government concerned, therefore, the fir itself is liabl to be quashed. he further submits that the punishment provided under the anti-terrorism act is for three years which does not fall in the prohibitory clause of section cr. pc. he submits that both the learned courts below fell in error while refusing bail to the petitioners. he placed on record the bail granted to main accused namely mehboob ali in same fir no. by the learne chief court and the petitioner is entitled for the same concession on the principle of consistency. he also submits that the petitioner is in prison for the last two and half years without trial. on the other hand, the learned advocate general appea ring on behalf of the state opposed for the grant of bail to the petitioner as there are sufficient grounds to believe that he has committed the alleged offence. he supports the impugned order the learned chief court as well as order th learned trial court. he contends that the petitioner is an active membe of balawaristan national front (bnf) which is headed by one abdul hameed who is involved in anti -state activities and is in self exile. the petitioner being activist of bnf visited india to meet the hairman of bnf namely abdul hamee as evident from his passport recovered from him by the police during search. the offence is not bailable. he also contends that sufficient material available on record against the petitioner which connect him with page the co mmission of the offence. per learned advocate general, the learned chief court and the learned trial court have rightly refused the concession of bail to the petitioner. the impugned order the learned chief court as well order the learned trial court may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned .. in criminal misc. no. the learned chief court as well order passed in cr. misc. no. by the learned trial court. we have also perused the bail granting .. to the main accused mehboob ali the learned chief court. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed by granting bail to the petitioner namely safdar ali son of meharban nagral, district gilgit on the of principle of consistency subject to furnishing two solvent sureties in the sum of rs. rs. ,, alongwith two reliable bail bonds in the like amount to be furnished by the respectable notables of the area to the satisfaction of the learned trial court. the petitioner, if placed under schedule -iv shall also furnish fresh surety bonds under schedule -iv of police rules to the concerned police authorities. in case, the petitioner, after releasing on bail, violate the police rules or involved in anti -state activities, he will be taken into custody forthwith in accordance with law. page the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.