page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. ayesha subhani daughter of syed zahid hussain -eden canal villas, lahore petitioner. syed junaid arshad others respondents. present: raja shafqat abbasi advocate for the petitioner. -on-record for the petitioner. the deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit. syed dildar hussain, assistant director (legal), anti corruption circle, fia gilgit. date of hearing: ... order. the notices were issued and served upon the respondent no. syed junaid arshad, aig crime branch gilgit through the office of the inspector general police (igp) gilgit -baltistan and to investigation officer (i.o) through the local office of fia. the office of the inspector general police (igp) gilgit -baltistan informs that the order of this court has been conveyed to respondent syed junaid arshad, aig crime branch gilgit on his whatsapp no. at pm and also informed him telephonically at pm on ... inspite of the notice, he page has opted not to appear today. the notice was also served upon to the investigation officer (i.o) .. who has also not opted to appear today. the reason shown by hi for not attending this court today is not acceptable rather contemptuous in nature. the reasons explained by assistant director (legal) at gilgit for his not appearance are not acceptable. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the respondent accused syed junaid arshad, is a high ranked police officer and his all colleagues are serving in cyber crime circle wing fia. the fia inspite of registration of case on .. have not arrested him till .. being cognizable offence rathe they facilitated him to get ad -interim bail and now providing opportunity enabling him to get the fir cancelled. per learned counsel the respondent accused has not joined the investigation. the poor victim lady (complainant) was kept in dark regarding gr anting the ad-interim bail to the accused respondent aig syed junaid arshad. further, syed diladar hussain, assistant director (legal) anti-corruption circle, fia gilgit has no knowledge about his joining of investigation at lahore or any progress of the ase. the learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that the extra ordinary concession of ad -interim transit bail for five weeks given by learned chief court is unprecedented and not tenable in law. per learned counsel there is no provision in la to grant ad interim transit bail. he submits that the transit remand and bail can be granted after the arrest of the accused as provided under page section cr. pc in order to remove surrender the accused from one province to the competent court of law of another province. the protected pre -arrest bail can also be granted under section cr. p.c enabling the petitioner to surrender in the competent court of law in other province. the respondent aig syed junaid arshad has neither prayed for pre -arrest or protected bail nor the learned chief court at gilgit has converted his petition into a protective or pre arrest bail. he prayed that impugned .. in criminal misc. no. learned chief court is not sustainable and liable be set aside. neither learned deputy attorney general for pakistan, gilgit nor the assistant director (legal) crime wing fia, gilgit have controverted the contentions raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner. we have heard the learned co unsel for the petitioner, learned assistant director (legal) fia, the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned order date .. in criminal misc. no. le arned chief court, gilgit. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. the ad -interim transit bail granted to the respondent accused syed junaid arshad, aig crime branch gilgit is cancelled. consequent thereto, the impugned .. in criminal misc. no. learned chief court, gilgit is set aside. page we want to issue contempt notice to investigation officer (i.o) fia, lahore. at this stage syed diladar hussain, assistant director (legal) anti -corruption circle, fia gilgit, requested and submits that he prays that no action against him may graciously be taken in circumstances which were beyond his control. we, on his request explanation offered by him withhold the issuance of such notice, however, the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.