page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. rehmat jan son of ghulam jan goharabad petitioner. wali-ur-rehman others respondents. present: date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in cr. revision no. the learned chief court whereby the said cr. revision filed by the respondent was accepted. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissati sfied with, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal, notices were issued to the respondent for their appearance and the case was heard on ... briefly, the facts of the prosecution story is that on the application of complainant an fir no. under sections ppc against the respondent was lodged in police station goharabad district diamer. after registration of the case, page the espondents were arrested and they were sent to the court of judicial magistrate chilas for judicial remand on .. to ... during the pendency of the case, one hashmatullah son of ghulam jan (real brother of deceased) filed an application before the learned administrative -terrorism court at gilgit for insertion of section of anti -terrorism act, in fir no. which upon hearing was accepted vide ... the respondent being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said order of anti -terrorism court filed criminal revision no. in the learned chief court which was accepted vide impugned .. hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner subm its that the fir was chalked against some unknown assailants who opened indiscriminating fire at the residence of the complainant. he also submits that as a result of which some family members of the complainant were injured who later on succumbed to injur ies. this act of the assailants spread fear and insecurity in the area. per learned counsel, during the investigation of the case, an application for constitution of joint investigation team (jit) was filed which was allowed. the case was accordingly investigated by the jit who unearthed the real culprits. he adds that the respondent voluntarily confessed their guilt before the superintendant of police and their statement was recorded under section -h anti terrorism act, he further submits that after completion of page challan, the report under section cr. pc was submitted in the learned anti -terrorism court by mentioning sections ppc read with section of anti -terrorism a ct, he reiterates that since the provisions of anti -terrorism act, were incorporated in the challan, therefore, the question arises that why a separate application was submitted by the complainant to the learned -terrorism court gilgit for insertion of section anti -terrorism act, in the fir. he submits that the order the learned anti -terrorism court is in consonance with the peculiar circumstances of the case. the brutality displayed by the respondent fully attracts the provisions of section of anti terrorism act, as the act of the respondent created fear and terror in the area. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned judgment and the same is not tenable in law. he pr ays that the impugned judgment the learned chief court may graciously be set aside by maintaining the .. the anti -terrorism act court at gilgit. on the other hand, he contends that the occurrence was the result of personal enmity which does not attract the provisions of anti -terrorism ac t, he also contends that the anti -terrorism law does not confer any powers upon the anti terrorism per learned counsel, the orders and dir ections issued to ssp diamer for insertion of section of anti -terrorism act, are were illegal, unwarranted, without lawful authority and beyond the jurisdiction of anti -terrorism court. he submits that the learned chief court has rightly accepted the cr. revision filed by the respondent vide impugned ... he prays that the said impugned judgment may pleased be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment the learned chief court as well as the contents of the fir and the charge sheet submitted on .. in which the provisions of anti -terrorism act, were already inserted. we are in agreement with the learned counsel for the respondent that the orders and directions issued to ssp diamer for insertion of section of anti -terrorism act, are were illegal, unwarranted, without lawful authority and beyond the jurisdiction of anti -terrorism court. the careful perusal of the case transpires that there was some family dispute between the parties prior to the occurrence which provoked the respondent to commit the alleged offence. further, the learned anti-terroris terrorism act, on application of any part y. the learned counsel for the petitioner also could not point out any infirmity or page illegality in the well reasoned impugned judgment pass ed by the learned chief court, hence, no interference is warranted into it by this court. in view of the above discussions, we dismissed this appeal vide our short ... consequently, the impugned .. in cr. revisio no. the learned chief court was maintained. these were the reasons of our said short order. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.