page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. the state petitioner. shakeel ahmed others respondents. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. the state petitioner. faizan -ul-haq respondent. present: the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general and -on-record for the petitioner in both the appeals. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... these criminal petitions have arisen out of the impugned orders dated .. and even dated .. in cr. misc. no. and cr. misc. no. the learned chief court whereby the said criminal miscellaneous filed by the respective respondent were allowed by granting bail subject to furnish personal bail bonds in the sum of rs. (rupees five lac only) and rs. ,, (rupees ten lac only) respectively with two solvent page sureties for each respondents, each in the like amou nt to the satisfaction of trial court. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the cases are heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are tha on .., the respondent were booked in case fir no. under sections ppc read with () and ata in the police station airport gilgit on the complaint of muhammad nabi khan ip of investigation wing gilgit. consequently, investigation has been initiated by the police against the respondents. during investigation, the respondent disclosed that they had a plan of sabotaging the cpec. as per contents of the fir, they planned to assault attack the people of shia sect, police barrier amphary and lastly to kill the shia ulema. the respondent further disclosed that they had also plan to attack in jammat khanas in district ghizer. the respondent moved bail application nos. and before the vacation se ssions upon hearing, the bail was rejected. the respondent being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed criminal miscellaneous applications before the learned chief court which upon hearing were allowed by directing for release of the resp ondents, hence, these criminal petition for leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that the respondent have directly charged in the fir and a specific role is attributed to them which prima facie connect them in the page commission of offence. he also submits that on factual and realist ic source of intelligence information, law and order as well as public security situation throughout gilgit -baltistan requires that the respondent be not allowed to remain outside enabling them to fulfill the vil design as alleged. per learned advocate general, the particular areas of threat remained under acute tense and in case of non -leaking out of the plan, a huge lost of human life and property could have been in danger. he submits that the learned chief ourt fell in error while releasing them on bail. there is sufficient material on record against the respondent to believe that they have committed the offence to sabotage the peace of the area. he prays that the said impugned orders may graciously be set aside and the bail granted to the respondent be cancelled. on the other hand, he contends that respondent have been booked in the case falsely and maliciously without any cogent evidence and material on record. there are general and vague allegations against the respondent which have rightly been appreciated by the learned chief court while setting them at liberty by granting the bail. he reiterate that the re are no reasonable grounds to believe that the respondent are involved in the alleged offence but there are sufficient grounds for further inquiry into the guilt of the respondent entitling them to remain on bail. he submits page that the learned chief court has rightly allowed the criminal petitions of the respondent by granting them bail concession. there must be strong grounds for their cancellation of bail. he prays that the impugned orders the learned hief court may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned orders the learned chief court as well as the judgments orders of the learned courts below. in our considered view, the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned orders dated .. and even dated .. in cr. misc. no. and cr. misc. no. being not well reasoned and well founded. admittedly, there is sufficient material on record to believe that the respondent were actively involved in hatching conspiracy and commission of the alleged offence, hence, they are not entitled for the concession of the bail at this stage. in view of the above discussions, we convert these petitions into appeals and the same are allowed. consequently, impugned orders dated .. and .. passed in cr. misc. no. cr. misc. no. the learned chief court are set aside. the bail extended to the respondent is cancelled in both the cases. the findings of this court ar tentative in nature which would not effect to the trial proceedings. the learned trial court has to hear and decide the case in its own meri ts in accordance with law. page the appeals are allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.