page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. cr.appeal. no. in cr.pla. no. abdul rahim haji musa mehdi abad (ex acsi bulk depot skardu) presently residing at olding tehsil and district skardu. petitioner accused. the state through fia gilgit respondent. criminal appeal for leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order read with order xxiii of gilgit -baltistan supreme appella te court rules against the judgment the learned chief court camp skardu whereby the learned chief court by partial accepting the appeal of state respondent and remanded the case to the trial court with direction to he ar parties and pass fresh orders in the light of material available on record or even to seek fresh evidence, if so required from either of the parties. for setting aside the same and to acquit the petitioner accused in the fir no. of police statio no. fia gilgit to meet the ends of justice. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. the deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit baltistan on behalf of respondent. date of hearing: --. judgment. page dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that in the year police station no. fia gilgit registered a criminal case bearing no. under section ,,, ppc read with section () of prevention of corruption act, (pca) of however, the prosecution presented the challan before special he further submits that after complete tria of the case the learned special vide ... he further contends that feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied wit the judgment order of special filed an appeal before the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan. after having heard the parties, the single .. special he further contended that the provision of section () of the prevention of corruption act, are mandatory in nature which cannot be condoned. he also contended that the learne page chief court gilgit -baltistan fell in error while interpreting the provisions of section () of the prevention of corruption act, which are mandatory in nature and as such the federal investigation agency committed illegality which cannot be cured under section cr.pc. he also contends that the impugned .., in criminal appeal no. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan by setting aside the order of the learned trial court, remanded the case back to the learned trial court is not sustainable in law. he also contended that the learned trial court has rightly held that the case was registered against the petitioner under section ,, and read with section () of the a prevention of corruption act, and the investigation of the same can only be conducted by an officer not below the rank of sub inspector being a schedule offence under section () of the federal investigation agency he further submitted that the .. i anti. (skd) the learned sessions resultantly, the petitioner was acquitted. he also contended that the pe titioner in the learned chief court was time barred and the case of the petitioner was at par with the respondent no., who was acquitted by the learned trial court and no the said acquittal page order was filed by the state. the judgment the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan for remanding the case back to the learned trial court was against the parameters laid down by the which is not tenable in law. in support of the above submissions, the learned ounsel for the petitioner relied upon the case laws reported in scmr sblr sindh pld sc sc scmr sc scmr he finally contended that the impugned .. the earned chief court gilgit -baltistan is required to be set aside being not sustainable as the same is the result of misconception of law and facts and the .. the special on the other hand, the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit -baltistan supports the impugned judgment. he submits that the learned chief court has rightly remanded the case back to the trial court as there are defects in manner of collecti on of prosecution evidence and benefit of doubts cannot be given to the accused. the proof of delivery of different goods of the department to the petitioner accused is a strong circumstantial evidence which has not been discussed by the trial court. he finally submits that the impugned judgment may please be maintained. page we have heard the learned counsel for both the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned chief court gilgit baltistan as well as the .., the special we also gone through the case laws referred by the learned counsel for the petitioner, which support his contentions. we hold that there must be a legal evidences on record and the crime has to be proved through cogent evidence beyond reasonable doubts. the prosecution had to stand on its own legs to prove its case beyond reasonable doubts. the respo ndent no. was acquitted on the same facts, same evidences and same question of law. consequently, the petitioner cannot be deprived from the benefit of doubts on the principle of equity. the concept of evidence of doubts is deep rooted. it is not necessa ry that there should be series of circumstances creating doubts in the prosecution case. a slightest doubt, if any, the benefit of such doubts must go to the accused. we after considering the materials on record and hearing the learned counsel for the etitioner are of the considered view that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case against the petitioner beyond reasonable doubts. the petitioner cannot be convicted or sent for re -trial on the same set of allegation and same set of evidence. the petitioner was accordingly entitled for benefit of page doubts given to respondent no.. furthermore, the the acquittal was time barred filed in the learned chief court. no the acquittal of respondent no. was filed in the chief court. the direction for remanding the case of the petitioner to the learned trial court is uncalled for unwarranted as the petitioner was equally entitled for acquittal as of respondent no.. we are fortified from judgments of consequently, the petition is converted into an appeal and the same is allowed. in view of the above discussions, the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learn ed chief court, gilgit -baltistan is set aside whereas, the .., the learned special the appeal is allowed. chief judge. judge. judge. weather the case is fit to be re ported or not? page