page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. national accountability bureau petitioner. muhammad nasir respondent. present: additional prosecutor, nab alongwith special prosecutor nab and -on-record for the petitioner. date of hearing: ... date of detail order: .. order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief cou rt whereby the writ petition no. filed by the respondent was allowed by granting him bail on the ground of non -compliance of the directives of this court subject to furnishing of bail bonds in the sum of rs. (rupees ten lac only) with two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the impugned order filed this leave to appeal. this court vide page .. issued notice to th respondent the case was heard on ... briefly, the facts of he case are that the respondent during his posting as director education department gilgit baltistan appointed persons as staff in excess to the sanctioned posts and also appoint ed persons il legally, without test interview, including appointments on abolished posts, upgra ded over age and unqualified ineligible individuals. the respondent by such illegal appointments accumulated approximately million and a sum of mi llion was deposited in bank in shape of cash. he also purchased properties in the name of different people as benamedars. the respondent was granted bail earlier by the learned chief court vide .. which was called in question before thi court and upon hearing this court vide .. allowed the appeal of the petitioner. consequent thereto, the bail granted to the respondent by the learned chief court was recalled by setting aside the .. with the direct ions to the learned trial court to conclude the trial of the case expeditiously within months without being influenced any of the observations made earlier either by this court or by the learned chief court. after expiry of six months the trial of the case could not be completed by the learned trial court resultantly th respondent filed writ petition before the learned chief court which upon hearing were al lowed on the ground the prosecution failed to conclude the trial within six page months as directed by this court on ... according to the learned chief court, the prosecution was bound to conclude the case within a period of six months, hence, this peti tion for leave to appeal. learned additional prosecutor, nab appearing on behalf of the petitioner submits that the delay in concluding the trial within a period of six months was not caused by the prosecution nab. the adjournme nts were made either by the defence counsel or due to the non -availability of the learned presiding officer national accountability court as he was in disposed off and or the case could not proceed due to non availability of record etc. per learned additio nal prosecutor, the observation of the learned chief court regarding causing delay by the prosecution in concluding of trial was incorrect and based on misreading and non -reading of the case diaries of the learned trial court. he submits that the case is a the verge of conclusion and only few witnesses have to be examined. he further su bmits that since the respondent is involved in huge corruption and corrupt practices, therefore, their release on bail at this stage would amount to add premium to their cre dit and thi will encourage the respondent and other likeminded criminals. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error while accepting the rit petitions of the respondent and passing the impugned common order, therefore, the same is not tenable. page on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent support the impugned order the learned chief court. he contend that the directions of this apex court vide .. have not been complied with and the trial of the ase has yet not been concluded despite lapse of more than months. per learned counsel, only prosecution witnesses (pws) out of pws have so far been examined and the early trial of the case is not insight. he submit that it is evident from various order sheets of the learned trial court that the delay in conclusion of trial is not on the part of respondent and the prosecution was deliberately using delay tactics. he further submit that beside the clear cut directions of this apex court, the trial has not been concluded. the mandatory provisions of section of nab ordinance, have also been violated according to which the prosecution is bound to conclude the trial within days after submitting of reference challan. he submit that the learne chief court has rightly accep ted the writ petition filed by the respondent. he prays that the impugned order may pleased be maintained in circumstances. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned order. we have also perused the order sheets case diaries of the learned trial court. the per usal of the said order sheets transpires that the delay in concluding the trial was not caused by the prosecution rather the a djournments have been page made sought either due to non -presence of the defence counsels or due to non -availability of the learned judge, nab court. in our considered view, the prosecution cannot be held responsible for the said delay in concluding the trial ithin the stipulated time. the learned chief court fell in error while observing that the delay was caused in concluding the trial by the national accountability bureau authorities. in view of the above discussions, this criminal petitio for leave to appeal was converted into an appeal and the same was allowed vide our short ... consequently, the impugned .. passed in writ petition no. by the learned chief court was set aside. the bail granted to the esponden namely muhammad nasir son of bobulo was hereby cancelled. these were the reasons of our said short order. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?