page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr.pla no. the state petitioner defendants. abdul ghaffar respondent appellant. charge under sectoin ppc vide fir no. and of police staion chilas. criminal leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan empowerment self govenance) order read with enabling articles of supreme appellate court rules against the impugned judgment .. chief ourt gilgit -baltistan in criminal misc no. (b) whereby bail petition of respondent under section cr. pc has been page accepted and respondent accused enlarged on bail. for cancellation of the bail order and setting aside impugned judgment order of learned chief court dated .. converting this leave to appeal into appeal and accepting the appeal for the ends of justice, law and equity. present:- the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith date of hearing: ... date of announcement of judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana mu hammad shamim .cj this criminal petition has been filed by the state through the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan against the impugned .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan in criminal misc. (b) wherein the learned chief court gilgit baltistan allowed the application under section -a cr.pc while page setting aside the orders dated .. and .. the learned session session case no. and session case no. respectively. the learned chief court maintained the order of the judicial magistrate chilas district diamer through which bail was granted to the present respondent (abdul ghaffar). the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan contended that respondent accused was apprehended by the daimer police on the charge of murder under section ppc vide fir nos. and police station chilas daimer. he further submitted that the respondent accused filed a bail petition before the learned judicial magistrate chillas on the ground of compromise between the accused and complainants affectees. upon hearing, the learned judicial magistrate granted bail to the respondent vide ... the petitioner feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the said order of the learned judicial magistrate diamer filed appeal before the learned session who upon hearing reversed the order of the learned judicial magistrate and the page present respondent remanded to judicial lo ck-up in accordance with the law and procedure of criminal justice. he further submits that the present respondent was directly charged for the murder under section ppc and for attempt to murder under section ppc read with section ppc for honou killing. the respondent accused feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said order of the learned sessions before the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan and upon hearing vide judgment ated .., allowed the application under section -a cr.pc while setting aside the .. the learned session consequently, the petitioner was ordered to be released on bail. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan contended that the judgment of the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan is against law, record and procedure, hence not maintainable in the eye of law and be set aside. he also submits that the learned chie court, gilgit -baltistan failed to apply its judicial mind to the facts page that all the offences charged are triable by the learned session he further contends that the provisions of section ppc also debar in honour killing case to entertain compromise filed by the some of the legal heirs of the deceased. in support of his contentions, he relied upon the case of nasreen bibi fara kh shahzad and other scmr, ), nisar ahmed etc the state, pcr.lj, ), on the other hand, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned .., the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan. he submitted that the learned session the order of the judicial magistrate is lawful and who competently granted bail to the petitioner. he reiterated that the learned judicial magistrate was competent to entertain the bail applications filed by page the petitioner though the alleged ffences were traible by the learned sessions judge. while saying so he relied upon a case of hassan wali and others the state, reported in pcr.lj and an another case allied bank of pakistan limited khalid farooq, reported as scmr we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties, perused the record of the case file and gone through all the three judgments of the courts below. we have gone through the case laws cited by both the learned counsels for the respective parties, in case nasreen bibi farakh shahzad, supra, the the bail application can only be entertained and decided by the session ju dge being a trial court. in such cases i.e. triable by the sessions judge, bail granted by the judicial magistrate is without authority. for such like cases, only the report under section cr.pc had to be submitted before the magistrate. the said magis trate had nothing to do with the merits of the case and was not competent to grant bail or pass any other order which could be passed only by the trial court. only page function of the magistrate after the receipt of report under section cr.pc was to transm it the challan to the court of competent jurisdiction sessions court. in a case niaz muhammad the state (supra), section ppc having not been mentioned in table contained section () cr.pc, the same is not compoundable by the legal heirs of th deceased. the learned trial court i.e. the sessions court in the case in hand has the jurisdiction to entertain the compromise or may disagree thereto. by mere filing affidavits before judicial magistrate does not empowers him to grant bail, case triable by the sessions judge. the compromise, however, if any, as provided under section cr.pc. must be filed by all the legal heirs in the trial court having jurisdiction as held by the division bench of lahore high court in case nisar ahmed the st ate (supra). the aforesaid reliance made by the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan is applicable in this case whereas the law referred by the learned counsel for the respondent is distinguishable. admittedly, the case in hand under section ppc and section ppc is triable by the court of sessions judge. the bail granted in this case by the judicial magistrate in criminal misc. no. dated .. under page aforementioned offences was without jurisdiction. consequently, the appeal is allowed. the .. in session case no. the learned sessions whereas both the orders in criminal misc. no. dated .. the leaned judicial magistrate diamer in (fir no. police station chillas diamer) and the impugned common judgment in cr. misc. (b) dated .., the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan are set aside. the bail granted by the learned chief court gilgit baltistan on .. to respondent abdul ghaffar niamat jalil village tehsil chillas district diamer is hereby cancelled. the appeal is allowed. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?