page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. the state petitioner. aziz-ur-rehman respondent. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the petitioner. rehmat ali advocate -on-record on behalf of the respondent. date of hearing: ... order. this criminal cancellation of pre -arrest bail has been directed against the impugned .. in criminal misc. no. the learned chief court whereby the cancellation of bail of the respondent, filed by the petitioner was dismissed having no merits. the petitioner were directed to proceed against all the offenders involved in the alleged crime. the petitioner feeling aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. this court vide granted leave to appeal. consequently, notice was issued to the respondent and the case was finally heard today. briefly the facts of the case are that an fir no. under section and ppc was registered at police page station thor district diamer against the respondent on the application of the executive engineer division diamer. in his report, the complainant alleged that the respondent was awarded a contract for metalling of a kilometer road from kkh to sari dass vide agreement dated ... the period for completion of the said road was one () year as per the said agreement but the respondent could not complete the road in question within the stipulated period. the police charged the respondent for commission offences under the above sections of ppc. the respondent accused being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned order filed ba. no. in the court of vacation sessions -arrest bail which upon hearing was allowed subject to execution of a deed for completion of the work the project within months vide ... the petitioner being aggrieved filed criminal misc. no. in the learned chi ef court which upon hearing was dismissed vide impugned .., hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that the pre -arrest bail concession granted to the respondent by the learned vacation session judge, gilgit and by the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan are against the provisions of section cr. pc. he also submits that main conditions governing in exercise of jurisdiction in pre-arrest bail are as under: page (a). there should be a genuine proved apprehension of imminent arrest with the effect of virtual restraint on the applicant. (b). that on account of ulterior motives, particularly on the part of motivated police, there should be apprehension of harassment and undue irreparable humiliati on by means of unjustified arrest. (c). it should, otherwise, be a fit case on merit for exercise of discretion in favour of the applicant. he further submits that the offence committed by the respondent falls within the prohibitory clause of section cr. pc. per learned advocate general mere on the basis of his undertaking that he will complete the remaining work of project within two three months does not entitle the respondent for the grant of bail when he has admitted his guilt. he submits that he investigation agency has been deprived to investigate the case and the respondent inspite of his undertaking in the court has not completed the remaining work. consequently, he has misused the concessions of bail as he caused huge loss to the government exchequer. he adds that since no ground for pre -arrest bail was available, therefore, the bail granted to the respondent may graciously be cancelled and the orders both the courts below may pleased be set aside. on the other hand, the learne counsel for the respondent supports the impugned .. in criminal misc. no. the learned chief court. he page contends that no criminal case can be registered against the respondent as the matter dispute if any is of a civil nature. the respondent, however, is ready to honor his contractual commitment for metalling of road, in case the road clearance be given by government gilgit -baltistan. he also contends that as per agreement dated .. between the parties the contractor has undertaken to complete the said road before 17th june, the progress of the work is satisfactory and will shortly be completed. he pray that the bail granted to the respondent vide impugned .. in criminal misc. no. the learned chief court was never misused and it may graciously be continued. per learned counsel for the respondent, the impugned order is well reasoned and no interference is warranted into it. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in criminal misc. no. the learned chief court as well as the order of the learned court below. admittedly, the dispute between the gilgit -baltistan government ant the respondent is of civil nature and orders the both the courts below are well reasoned. the learned advocate general also could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned order the learned chief court. page in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, impugned .. in criminal misc. no. the learned chief court is maintained. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?