page in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan gilgit. cr. misc. no. in under objection no. ud- din, judge. judge. muhammad riaz petitioner. the state. respondent. present: malik haq nawaz sr. advocate along with haji jamal khan aor on behalf of petitioner. application for permission to compromise by the parties. charge under section ppc vide fir no. police station thore and section ao vide fir no. police station thor. leave to appeal under article of gilgit baltistan empowerment and selef governance order date of hearing: --. order. the petitioner muhammad riaz jahngir thore chilas district diamer had been convicted under section vide fir no. police station thore tehsil chilas district diamer by the division bench of chief court vide --. he has been sentenced to life imprisonment and he has also been sentenced to years rigorous imprisonment with fine of rs. under section armed ordinance vide fir no. police station throe tehsil chilas district diamer. appeal has een preferred against the order of the gb chief court dated ... meanwhile, the parties have patched up page the matter through the elders and notables of the area and an application has also been moved in this court in this regard. this court ide order4 dated .. directed the trial court i.e. additional district and session the additional sessions diamer chilas complied with the order of this court and recorded the statements of the parties and submitted his recommendation to this court vide his report dated --. in his order the additional sessions he further reports that the complainant party has no objection if the convicted party is acquitted on the basis of the said compromise. the trial court has als checked the identities and scrutinized the photocopies of the national identity cards nics) and has also placed the said copies on the file. in this circumstance, we also accept the said compromise to be genuine. however, the conviction under armed ordinance whereby the convict has been convicted for years rigorous imprisonment in addition of fine amounting to rs. in this regard counsel for the parties pleaded that the accused has spent years and months in the judicial loc- up. the same may be considered in his favour. we deem it proper that the period of years and month is enough time spent behind bar the remaining period is deemed to have been undergone. however, the fine of rs. stands as it is. the same shall be deposited in the government treasury and the challan shall be placed on the record of this court. the convicted person i.e. muhammad riaz is acquitted from the charge of murder under vide fir no. police station thore and he conviction under section a.o.vide fir no. police station thore tehsil chilas district diamer in the case titled state muhammad riaz etc vide order date -- the gilgit baltistan chief court will deemed to have been se rved. page he shall be released forthwith if he is not required in any other case. the case is accordingly disposed of on the basis of the compromise. judge. judge.