page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit cr. mis c. no. (chief judge) (judge) shakirullah alias doctor shahbaz khan mardan at present confined in district jail gilgit. petitioner the state respondent offence u ppc and ata leave to appeal under article () against the order -- chief court gilgit -baltistan present: malik haq nawaz senior advocate alongwith aji jamal aor for petitioner. advocate general gilgit -baltistan assisted by special prosecutor for atc gilgit. date of hearing: .. order muhammad nawaz abbasi, cj: the petitioner being an accused in a case pending in trial before ata court gilgit, on refusal of bail by the chief court has filed this grant of bail. the learned counsel for the petitioner has contended in support of this petition that excep the confessional statement of petitioner before the police office which is not admissible as per judgment of supreme court of pakistan in case of mahram ali page federation of pakistan scmr ), there evidence direct or circumstantial to connect hi with the commission of offence. the learned advocate general on instruction from the special prosecutor atc who is present in court has submitted that out of prosecution witnesses have already been examined whereas witnesses have been given up a nd the statement of a doctor, an eye witness of the occurrence and two police officials will be recorded on -- which is the next date. he submitted that court has adopted coercive measures for the attendance of the above witnesses. therefore, the ase is ripe for decision and grant of bail to the petitioner at this stage may cause prejudice to the prosecution case. in view of the position explained by the learned advocate general, we, without commenting upon the merits of the case would like to dir ect that trial court will ensure the recording of statements of remaining witnesses on the next date and in case the witnesses are not produced by the prosecution, the court may proceed against the police official in accordance with law and learned trial this petition with above observation stands disposed of. chief