page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. cr. misc. no. in cr.pla. no. zubair ahmed son of khushal resident of shoti napura basin district gilgit. petitioner. the state respondent. offence under section (c) cnsa vide fir no. dated anf police station anf gilgit. criminal leave to the impugned judgment conviction dated in criminal appeal no gilgit –baltistan chief court. present: johar ali advocate -on- record for the petitioner. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition is directed against the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned gilgit baltistan chief court. whereby, the appeal was dismissed and upheld the .. in session cas no. the learned special the learned trial court convicted the petitioner and sentence him to suffer eight () years r.i under section (c) cnsa in addition to pay rs. (rupees one lac only), in default in page payment of fine he has to undergo for further one () year s.i. the benefit of section –b cr.pc was given to the petitioner. briefly the facts spelt out in fir. no. registered on .. at police station anf, gilgit under section (c) cnsa are that on receipt of spy information about a notorious drug peddler zubair ahmed, who will arrive at kashrote paltani mohallah link road ith a huge amount of char as in his personal vehicle to supply the same to his specific buyers. whereupon a raiding team, in the surveillance of a ssistant director anf alongwith the complainant and other staff moved towards the above venue and made nakabandi on the ehsan ali road. in the meantime a dark blue toyota corolla car bearing no re- came towards the link road from paltani muhallah which was made to stop. on inquiry, a person found in the vehicle, who subsequently was known to be zubair ahmed o, khushal khan shoti napoor basin gilgit. the said drug peddler disclosed that the charas is lying in the digi of the vehicle. on the opening digi of the car a blue plastic bag was found which was opened in presence of witnesses and twenty () number of packets of hashish were recovered. on weighing all the packets it were found hundred grams each and the total packets were found twenty five () kgs. ten grams of hashish as sample were drawn from each packet containing i.e. total twenty five () which were separately sealed in presence of the witnesses and remaining hashish weighing was also sealed in a plastic bag. the recovery memos were also prepared. the vehicl was page compounded and recovery memo of the same alongwith site plan were prepare on the spot whereafter the recovered articles alongwith the accused were brought to the police station. the charge was framed by the learned trial court on .. under section (c) cnsa for possession of twenty five () kgs char as. the petitioner did not plead guilty and claimed for trial. six () prosecution witnesses were examined. in the meantime, the prosecution filed complete charge sheet, whereafter, the prosecution examined only two () witnesses namely pw hc asif shah and pw si muhammad sharif sho anf and closed prosecution evidences on ... the petitioner accused was also examined under section cr.pc. the petitioner denied all the char ges leveled against him and took specific defence of false implication and planting of false recoveries from him by the sho si muhammad sharif and pw asif shah in collusion with so called anf informer namely setti. the petitioner accused although opted no to record his statemen on oath under section cr. pc but examined two defence witnesses in support of his version, namely ayub subhan joo khawaja muhallah kashorote gilgit and obaidullah abdul bari sakwar gilgit. the said dws have admitted the presence of petitioner and interception of the alleged car drove by him on the specific day and time of the raid. further the petitioner admitted his arrest at the said raid on the specific time and day of the occurrence. page upon hearing the learned counsel for the petitioner as well as the special prosecutor anf, the learned trial court after found him guilty convicted and sentenced him to suffer eight years ri and to pay rs. (rupees one lac). in case of default, the petitioner will undergo for further one () year si. the benefit of section –b cr. pc was extended to him. a sum of rs. (rupees one lac) recovered in possession of the petitioner having not been proved as watak money was ordered to return to him. the accounts of the petitioner accused frozen by the anf, having not been proved raised by the petitioner on allegedly drug peddling money were also defreezed. the vehicle allegedly involved in the offence is also released as fine was impos ed on the petitioner. the case property i.e. kgs char as was also declared state property and the prosecution was directed to destroy the same according to the law in presence of the judicial magistrate. the petitioner, feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the impugned .., the learned session special challenged the conviction and sentences awarded to him before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court at gilgit which upon hearing the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned special prosecutor for the state was pleased to dismiss the appeal being meritless and upheld the judgment the learned trial court. the petitioner being aggrieved by filed leave to appeal in this apex court for setting aside the impugned .. page the learned chief court in criminal appeal no. as well as the .. in session case no. the lea rned trial court gilgit. notice to the special prosecutor anf was issued on .. and consequently the case was heard today. after hearing the learned counsels for he respective parties at length, he further submits that the petitioner committed the offence in a mitigating circumstances. he is a young man having large family responsibilities. due to his detention in jail, he and his family have morally and mentally suffered a lot and financially crippled. he has learnt a lesson and has shown remorse and penitence and wants to unburden his conscious. during serving his sentence in jail he has improved himself a lot and realized his mistakes by committing such shameful offence which has given bad name to his whole religious family. the learned advocate for the petitioner further contends that the petitioner undertook not to repeat such an offence in future. he wants to reform and rehabilitate himself as a responsible citi zen. he finally submits that the nds of while submitting so he support his contention by relying upon case laws reported as jameel khan others the state, (pld karachi, ), waris khan the state, (pld karachi, ), page muhammad hashim the state, (pld sc ), unchenna ibeneme the state, mld ), rodriguez narciso the state mld ), john chibuzo the state mld ), jaffar the state, pcr.lj ), ru bina the state others, pcr.lj ), ikhtiar the state, pcr.lj and muhammad ayub the state, pcr.lj ). he contends that in all the aforementioned cases the on the other hand, the learned special prosecut or appearing on behalf the state submits that since the petitioner has not challenged the convictions sentences awarded to him by both the courts below, therefore, the appeal of the petitioner may be dismissed and conviction be maintained. he opposed to the reduction in sentence as the learned trial court has awarded lesser punishment. the learned counsel also submits that under section (c as the quantity of recovered charas was twenty five () kgs and under section (c first proviso of cns act the minimum sentence provided was life imprisonment. this court inquired from the learned prosecutor for anf as to why the state page has not filed criminal revision for enhancement of sentence, on which the learned prosecutor anf could not offer any expla nation. we have heard both the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned judgments the two courts below as well as the case laws referred by the learned counsel for the petitioner which supports his contentions. further the perusal of the record shows that the petitioner accused is in custody since ... he is the first offender who has shown his remorse and penitence during serving the sentence in jail. he has already served upon more than three () years in jail and as per record his conduct found satisfactory. he also wants to reform and rehabilitate himself as a responsible citizen in the society in future. in our considered view the etitioner deserves for leniency as prayed for. in view of the above facts, circumstances and in persuance of case laws cited by we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed as not pressed. the conviction is maintained, however, the substantive sentence is reduced from eight () years r.i to five () years r.i and the fine of rs. (rupees one lac only) is also reduced to rs. (rupees fifty thousand only). in default in payment of fine he has to further undergo for six () months r.i instead of s.i. the benefit of section -b cr.pc has already been extended to the petitioner page will remain intact. the remission, if any, admissible as per prisons rules may be given to him and included in his substantive sentence thereto. the appeal is dismissed, conviction is maintained and sentence is reduced. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?