page in the supreme appellate court nothern areas gilgit cr. mise. no. (chief judge) (judge) (judge) shah zaman sifat khan daskin hercho. tehsil and district astore at present judicial lock district astore. .. petitioner the state .. respondent present: muhammad abbas khan advocate for the petitioner. advocate general for the state. offence under section ppc harabah and section a.o vide fir nos., police station astore. order muhammad nawaz abbasi.c.j: the petitioner on refusal of bail by chief court filed a grand of bail before this court and pending disposal of the same, he approached learned additional district session -accused have been allowed bail by supreme appellate court. the petitioner was allowed bail by att ritional district session notice was issued to the advocate general and report was also called from learned additional district session he entertained his bail application. the learned counsel has informed us that learned additional district session the learned counsel for the petitioner contended that the bail application was moved by him on behalf of the petitioner efore asj in good faith without the intenti on of concealing the factam of pendency of bail application before court and that learned asj page also granted bail for the sole consideration that co -accused of the petitioner have allowed bail by this court. learned counsel submitted that in the above bac kground he may by permitted to withdraw the misc. application for withdrawal of the main petition which may be decided on merits. the learned advocate general has not opposed the request made by the learned counsel for the petitioner and submitted that learned additional district session in view of the explanation of the learned counsel was reluctantly accept his request with the observation that the matter was de alt with improper and inappropriate manner. be that as it may, we in the interest of application and proceed to decide the main petition on merits. the learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that the case against the petitioner on merits is at par with his co -accused who have been granted bail by this court vide order .. and in the light of rule of consistency, he would also be entitled to the same concession. in view of the fact that role assigned the petitioner is not distinguishable to that of his five co-accused who have been allowed bail the by this court, we need not to discuss the case in detail as the petitioner would also be entitled to the same relief. consequently this petition is conver ted into an appeal and petitioner is allowed bail subject to his furnishing bail bonds in the sum of upees with two local sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the judicial magistrate asotre. the appeal is disposed of accordingl y. announced: .. chief