page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit cr. mise. no. (chief judge) (judge) (judge) quaid -e-azam others petitioner the state respondent leave to the order -- of learned chief court gilgit -baltistan whereby the learned chief court has dismissed the bail petition of the petitioner appellant s: present: advocate for the petitioner haji jamal khan, a.o.r. date of hearing: ... order syed jaffar shah, ------ -- learned chief -baltistan in criminal misc. no. whereby the learned chief ,, ppc read with section arms ordin ance vide fir no. and registered with police station thore district dimer. the petition in hand was initially filed by six petitioner namely qaid -e-azam, azam, mustaqeem page shahli zar, hadis, abdul mutalib ali zar, idress hamis, on -- the petition to the extent of petitioner no. to namely hadis, abdul mutlib, and idress was dismissed by this court having not pressed by learned counsel for petitioner as such by this order we would dispose of the etition to the extent of remaining three petitioner namely qaid-e-azam, azam and mustaqeem. the brief facts leading to the present petition are that on -- one dilbar khan the complainant, lodged a complaint with police station thore, district dimar alleging therein that on the fateful day of occurrence i.e. --, the dead body of one sadder shah mir who was died due to road accident in rawalpindi was brought from rawalpindi to his native village for burial purpose. it is alleged in he fir that the said the said deceased sadder had remained absconder for a long time after committing the murder of one of relatives of petitioner namely doshan ali zad and according to the custom of the area the dead body of said sadder was taken to the house of doshan for forgiveness but on lalkara of the petitioner their other companions instead of granting forgiveness to the complainant party resorted in discriminate firing upon the gathering, resultantly one muhammad ashraf received bullet injuries and died. that the police on receipt of information registered a case under section read with section ppc against the petitioner and other co -accused and arrested them. the weapons on offence from co -accused were also stated to have been recovered for which separate fir under relevant provisions of arms ordinance has been registered. page that the petitioner filed bail application before the court of district and sessions -- and after having been unsuccessful in their attempt to secure bail from the court of sessions judge, moved bail application before chief court gilgit -baltistan which met the same fate. we have heard the learned counsel for the etitioners and advocate general, gilgit -baltistan for the state, the learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that there is no direct allegation against the petitioner for commission of offence, that the petitioner have been roped in the crime due malafide intention and enmity with the complainant party, that no specific role has been attributed to them except role of lalkara as such they are entitled for grant of bail. on the other hand the learned advocate general while opposing the above submis sions of learned counsel for the petitioner contended that the present petitioner have been nominated in the promptly lodge fir and there is sufficient material available against them to connect with the present crime. moreover their case falls within th prohibitory clause of section () cr.p.c. having heard the learned counsel for the parties, gone through the available record with their able assistance, we have come to the conclusion that though the names of present petitioner are figured in he fir but no pivotal role except the role of lalkara has been assigned to them, the presence of the petitioner has been show at the place of occurrence but there is no allegation of petitioner being armed page at the of occurrence as such question of recover or non recovery of fir arm from their possession is immaterial. so far as mentioning of their names in the fir with a role of lalkara is concerned it may be a reason to engage maximum number of persons from opposite party in the litigation as long standi ng enmity between the parties is admitted. be that as it may, for what has what has been discussed above the case against the petitioner calls for further inquiry into their guilt within the purview of section () cr. p.c. this petition is therefor converted into appeal and allowed, however our above observations are tentative in nature and the trial court shall proceed with the case without being influenced by this order. our short -- by virtue of which the appellant were allo wed bail is reproduced herein under is treated as part of this order. for the reasons to be recorded separately this petition is converted in to appeal and allowed. the appellant shall be released on bail subject to their furnishing bail bonds in the su of rs. two lacs with one surety each in the like amount to the satisfaction of trial court petition converted into appeal and allowed. chief