page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, at gilgit cr. misc. no. in cr. review no. -ud-din, judge. judge. ghulam muhammad haji rahmat ali haji gam skardu. petitioner engineer ghulam abbas haji sher haji gam skardu, the state. respondent review leafe to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, against the jud gment dated -- the application for leave to seek permission for compounding the offence under section cr.p.c and acquittal of petitioner convict above named of the ground of compromise effected between the petitioner convict and complainant party. present: advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the state. haji jamal khan, advocate on record. date of hearing: --. order raja jalal -ud-din, engineer ghulam abbas complainant is present in the court on the direction dated the mutation no. dated --, has been presented in original before the court hich has been verified by him, who states that the possession of the same has been taken over accordingly by the legal heirs of the deceased and have also received the rent of the shop in question. page it is also certified that the sum of rupees one million (rs. ,, -) as blood money also been received by the legal heirs of the deceased. the complainant present in the court bearing cnic no. and also verifies the contents of the compromise proceedings which has taken place before additiona district sessions he has no objection if the convict namely ghulam muhammad is acquitted from the charge. he also verifies that the compromise is in the best interest of the parties as they are closely related and co -villagers also. we ave minutely gone through the compromise proceedings before the additional district sessions in -favour of the legal eirs of the deceased. the original of the same is returned and the attested photo copy is placed on record. we feel that it is a genuine compromise affected between the parties and we order that petitioner be acquitted from the charge of murder against hi m. the convict had been sentenced to under go years imprisonment vide -- of supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan. in view of the compromise effected between the parties and the facts discussed above, we have no hesitation in ordering the acquittal of the convict. page the convict namely ghulam muhammad may be released from judicial custody held in cr. misc. no. in cr. review no. vide f.i.r. no. of police station skardu, if not required in any other case.