page in the supreme appellate court nothern areas gilgit cr. mis c. no. (chief judge) (judge) gul sfaid maser khan, darel at present in judicial lockup in district jaail diamer chilas. petitioner the state respondent charge under a.o leave to the order -- chief court northern areas gilgit present: advocate general for the state. malik haq nawaz, advocate for the petitioner. date of hearing: .. order the petitioner facing charge of murder und er section ppc in case registered against hi vide fir no. dated .. at police station daril has filed this grant of bail on the refusal of the same by chief court, vide ... the petitioner along with his companion allegedly armed with lethal weapon opened firing at shah room deceased as a result of which he having sustained injuries died at the spot. the occurrence was seen by azmatullah, dadu and shah jehan, and their statements were accordingly recor ded by police under section however, during the course of investigation, co -accused of the petitioner namely haji hakim was discharged under section c.rpc and challan against the petitioner was submitted on .., whereas, charge against him as framed on ... the report called from the trial cou rt reveals that despite repeated notice and issue of bailable and non bailable warrant, the witnesses did not appear before the court and on the dates on which witnesses were available, the distr ict attorney was not present and for the above reason there was no progress in the trial. page the careful examination of the record with assistance of learned counsel for the petitioner and learned advocate general, and tentative assessment of the evidence in the hand of prosecution would show that petitioner was assigned the general role of firing in company of his co -accused and it is not ascertainable for the statements of eye witnesses under section cr.pc that who out of two assailants was exclusivel responsible for causing death and there is also nothing on record that for what reason the co accused of the petitioner was discharged from the case. the learned counsel for the petitioner has contended that no doubt petitioner is a nominated accused but there is no incriminatory evidence on the record to prove the charge against him and in view of the facts that the petitioner and his co-accused were assigned the general role of firing, the benefit of doubt arising out of the situation after the guil of petitioner would go to him even at bail stage. learned counsel added that except the ocular account yet to be produced no other evidence including the medical and recovery is available on record to connect the petitioner with the crime. he submitted hat the postmortem of the deceased was not conducted, to ascertain the cause of death and similarly the weapon of offence allegedly recovered from the petitioner was not sent to the ballistic expert for opinion. therefore, the sole evidence of eye witness without test of cross examination and security of its evidentiary value no inference regarding guilt of petitioner cannot be drawn at this stage to withheld. learned counsel that in these circumstances, the case against petitioner would squarely fall within the ambit of section () cr.pc, for the purpose of further inquiry and grant of concession of bail. the learned advocate general has not been able to controvert the contention of lea rned counsel for want of police record, which has not been made available to him by the concerned police. be that as it may, in view the facts and circumstances of the case and the quality of prosecution evidence, the detention of the petitioner without trial is not fair. the report submitted by trial court would show that despite issue of bailable and non bailable warrants of witnesses, prosecution has not bothered to make any effort to produce the evidence and consequently the early conclusion of trial is not in sight. page we, therefore, convert this petition into and appeal, and rant bail to the appellant, subject to his furnishing bail bonds in the sum of rs. two lac, with two sureties each in the amount to the satisfaction of trial cou rt. chief