page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, at gilgit cr. misc. no. in cr. appeal no. -ud-din, judge. judge. fareed alam wazir khan sardar hussain muhammad ayub mohammad sajjad dolat aman rs napurah gilgit tehsil district gilgit. petitioner the state respondent leave to appeal under article of gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, against the ju dgment honorable gilgit baltistan chief court in criminal appeal no. whereby death sentence and fine of rs., awarded by anti terrorism court has been up held. application for leave to seek permission for compounding the offence u nder section cr.p.c and release of convicts petitioner above named on the ground of compromise affected between the petitioner and complaint party. date of hearing: --. order raja jalal -ud-din j, an application was preferred to seek ermission for compounding the offence and release of the convicts petitioner on the grounds of compromise. the petition was moved by the complaint namely abdul manan abdul majeed and wazir khan ghulab resident of napurah basin, with the request seek permission to compound the offence u cr.p.c. and release of convicts petitioners. page the chief gilgit -baltista n, and also directed that the legal heirs of the deceased may be summoned and their statements may be recorded in this regard. it was also directed that proper verifications of the legal heirs and to safeguard the rights of minor legal heirs and their inte rest to be kept in mind. the trial court ata jude complied with the order of the court and did the needful. he recorded the statements of the jirgah members alongwith the statement of the heirs of the deceased. the report of the compromise is perused and placed on file alongwith the statements of the concerned individuals. today the legal heirs of the deceased namely wazir son of gulab shah, brother of deceased rafiq alongwith abdul manan son of abdul majid father of the deceased are present, who again ver ify the genuineness of the compromise and submit that they have no objection if the accused are released from the judicial lock up on the basis of the compromise effected. the jirgah members present in court also assured that they are confident that the ompromise between the parties is genuine and shall be long lasting and also peace and tranquility shall prevail in the area. going through the contents of the file and statements of the concerned individuals alongwith the surety and confidence page of the jirg ah members, we feel that it is a good case for compounding the matter. we have no hesitation in ordering the release of accused from the judicial lock up in the case vide fir no. police station city gilgit under section p.p.c read with ection ata the case was convicted by the ata court on 5th july which was upheld with order of chief court gilgit -baltistan on -- which is pending appeal in this court. the matter regarding the conviction of three convicts petitione rs under section a.o. is also to be looked into. the three convicts petitioner had been sentenced to years rigorous imprisonment. looking at the merits of the case and the matter the convicts appellant are also acquitted from the said charges also. the convict petitioner are acquitted from the charges under section p.p.c and sections ata and also fir no. police station gilgit and also from the charge of a.o of vide fir no. and the petitioner may be released from the judicial lock up if not required in any other case. the petition is disposed of accordingly. announced. --