page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit cr. misc. no. in cr. pla no. chief judge (in chamber) qamar petitioner the state respondent present the deputy advocate general gilgit -baltistan .. the learned counsel for petitioner is heard at some length. he submits that firs nos. and were registered against petitioner accused at ps jall district diamer. he next contends that after registration of firs, local police of ps he next contends that the petitioner accused filed a bail application before learned sessions which was declined. having being aggrieved, the petitioner filed cr. misc. no. before the learned chief court which met the same fate vide ... the learned counsel for petitioner argues that the learned chief court has passed the judgment order in hurry and in a hasty manner without co nsidering the justified reasons. he emphasized that there are contradictions in the statements of eye witnesses recorded under section cr.pc, in the ocular and medical evidence, and in the contents of fir as well. on the basis of above submissions, he requests for grant of bail to the petitioner. arguments heard and record perused. the impugned judgment the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan has also been gone through minutely. page i am of the view that this is duty of the courts to take into accounts all attending facts and circumstance before releasing accused person on bail. the contradictions in statements of eye witnesses cannot be determined at bail stage. where a prima faci case is made out against the accused, he is disentitled to the grant of bail. i am co nvinced with the view taken by superior courts in the case titled muhammad afzal another the state scmr lal muhammad the state scmr read ith gblr state niamat ali and abdul aziz saleh muhammad scmr relevant portion from the above quoted case laws are reproduced herein blow: lal muhammad the state scmr a prima facie case has been made against the petitioner which disentitles him from the grant of bail. muhammad afzal others the state scmr ). it is obligatory for the court to consider all the attending facts and circumstances before deci ding to release such an accused persons on bail in addition to the above, in abdul aziz v. saleem muhammad and another scmr ), the (pws) directly implicating the accused with the commission of offence, the effect of delay in recording statements of prosecution witnesses (pws) could not be determined at bail stage and the bail granted by the high court was cancelled. similarly, evaluation of the statement of the accused by comparing with the statements of other witnesses is not justified at this juncture and the petitioner request for bail is liable to be refused on the touchstone of law laid down by the apex courts in the case law cited above. as such, he petitioner is not justified at this juncture to request for grant of bail. it would also be appropriate to mention here that the accused, after occurrence of the incident, remained absconder fugitive from the law for a period of about year. a case law cited by the learned chief court while deciding the bail petition reported at scmr further fortifies the observations of this court. for the sake of brevity, the relevant portion is reproduced herein below: page the police have found him guilty during the investigation. he remained fugitive from law for a considerable period of time. so far as the conflict between the ocular account and the medical evidence, pointed by the learned counsel for the petitioner is concerned, suffice it to observe, deeper appreciation of evidence is not desirable at the bail stage. it is for the learned tra il court to determine after recording evidence pro and contra, the guilt or otherwise of the petitioner in view of the above discussion, the petitioner is not entitled for concession of bail at his stage. hence, the instant cr.pla no. is rejected and the impugned .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan in cr. misc. no. as well as .. in bail application no. the learned additional sessions bail refused. chief (yes not).