page mujtaba others the state in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit chief misc. no. in cr.pla no. mujtaba zolair satas buner, tehsil district diamer. nasirullah alishan satas buner, tehsil district chilas petitioner the state respondent present for the state: the prosecutor general, gilgit -baltistan for the petitioners: shakoor khan advocate for complainant: .. order syed arshad hussain shah, chief judge: the above cr. pla no. has been instituted against impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in cr. appeal no. through this impugned judgment, learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has maintained the sentence awarded by the learned trial court under section with certain modification i.e. reducing the sentence from years ri sentence to years ri each. being aggrieved, the petitioner have now impugned the said judgment before this court by way of the instant cr. pla. during pendency of cr.pla, counsel for petitioner apprised the court that a compromise has been effected between the parties, whereby the complainant has pardon the accused petitioners. today, the complainant, nam ely mardan shoban page mujtaba others the state bonor voluntarily appeared before this court and submitted that he has voluntary, with free will and in the name of almighty allah has pardon ed forgiven the petitioners. on the basis of compromise and statement of the complainant at bar, the learned counsel for the petitioner prays for their acquittal and release from jail. in view of the compromise based on free will and voluntariness, quantum of sentence awarded as well as observations made by the we are inclined to accept the submissions of the learned counsel for release of the petitioner from jail and his acquittal from the charges as well. while acquitting the petitioner from the charges, we are fortified by the observations of the the relevant case laws are quoted below: suo motu case re state supreme court carrying the spirit of composition (forgiveness and reconciliation) forward we may add that grant of the requisite permission or leave by the court in such cases should be a rule and its withholding or refusal an exception. composition of a compoundable offence is a co ncession extended by the legislature and also by the religion of islam to the victims and their heirs and the same may not lightly be taken away or whittled down by the courts. .as a result of the discussion made above we declare the legal position as fo llows: (i) as provided by the provisions of section -e(), p.p.c. and the first proviso to the same and as already declared by this court in the case of chairman agricultural development bank of pakistan and another v. mumtaz khan (pld sc as a result of a successful and complete compounding of a compoundable offence in a case of ta'zir under section cr.p.c., with permission or leave of the relevant court where required, an accused person or convict is to be acquitted by the relevant court which acquittal shall erase, efface, obliterate and wash away his alleged or already adjudged guilt in the matter apart page mujtaba others the state from leading to setting aside of his sentence or punishment, if any. (ii) in the context of the provisions of section (), cr.p.c. th effect of an acquittal recorded by a court on the basis of a successful and complete compounding of a compoundable offence shall include all the benefits and fruits of a lawful acquittal. naseer ahmed the state scmr all the legal hei rs of the deceased on the basis of the compromise arrived at between the respective parties have forgiven the appellant convicts in the name of almighty allah and have already sworn affidavits. the major legal heirs have deposed before the learned session therefore, have no objection if the criminal appeal no. of is accepted and the appellant be acquitted from the charge. .in the light of the foregoing rea sons, facts and circumstances, cr.m.a. no. of is allowed and criminal appeal no. of is disposed of in terms of compromise. the appellant are acquitted from the charge and shall be released forthwith if not required in any other case muhammad irshad alias shada state scmr we are convinced that th compromise between the legal heirs of the deceased and the petitioner accused is genuine. the composition of an offence under section p.p.c by the legal heirs of the deceased shall have the effect of acquittal of the accused with whom the offence has been compounded scmr waheed and other the state and others having perused the afore -mentioned report of the district and sessions judge, pakpattan, we find that the compromise effected between the parties is genuine, voluntary and without a ny coercion or duress. in view of the above, crl. m.a. no. -l of filed by waheed convict -applicant is allowed. consequently, jail petition no. of filed by convict -applicant is converted into an app eal and the same is allowed. the impugned judgment of the learned high court dated .. is set aside. the appellant waheed is acquitted of the charge and shall be released forthwith, if not required to be detained in any other case page mujtaba others the state in the light of compromise, statement of complainant at bar and judgments of the the petitioner are acquitted from the charges and ordered to be released from the jail, if they are not required in any other case(s). forgoing in view, the instant cr. pla no. being infructuous, is disposed of accordingly. chief yes no