page in the spreme appellate court gilgit baltistan chief judge cr. pla no. ateeq hussain lateef hussain resid ent of muhallah sajadia gilgit -------------------------------------------- petitioner the state --------------------------------------- respondent cr. pla no. the state ------ ----------------------------- petitioner shamir alias rehman faqir muhammad barmas tehsil district gilgit -------------------------------- respondent cr. pla no. naeem ahmed bashir ahmed barmas tehsil and district gilgit --------------------- petitioner shamir hussain alias rehan faqir muhammad barmas tehsil district gilgit ------------------- respondent present: advocate general for the state. malik haq nawaz sr.advocate assisted by muhammad abbas aor for the complainant shamir hussain. page charged under section ppc, of ata arms ordinance vide fir no. ps city gilgit. petition under article of gb governance order for leave to .. division bench of learned chief court gilgit whereby the learned chief court maintained the death sentence of petitioner appellant for leave to appeal into appeal to meet the ends of justice. date of hearing on -- judgment muhammad na waz abbasi, cj: these connected petitions bearing cr.pla no. cr.pla no and cr. pla no have been directed against the -- the chief court in a criminal appeal whereby conviction and sentence of death awarded to ateeq hussain appellant by the special court established under anti terrorism act, at gilgit in a murder case has been maintained whereas shabir hussain his co convict has been acquitted. the criminal leave to appeal no. has been filed by ateeq hussain, convict whereas criminal petition no. and criminal petition no have been filed by the state and complainant respectively, against the acquittal of shabir hussain. the short fact in the background le ading to these petitions are that on a report lodged by qari pervez akhtar on --, a case under section ppc read with section -a of anti terrorism act, was registered against the accused at police station city, gilgit, where in the occurrence has been described as under: iftikhar ahmad bashir ahmed 2nd master, government high school, sharot on the fateful day at about hrs while on his way back to his house from school when reached in front of the house of sana ul lah (brother of first informant) was suddenly fired at and sana ullah on hearing fire report coming out of his house saw that iftikhar ahmed was lying dead on the road. the deceased had no enmity or strained relation with any person in the area and has bee made victim of the terrorism. ghulam ali resident of barmas who was in the company of the deceased at the time of occurrence has witnessed the occurrence. during the investigation of the case, the accused having been found involved in the case ere challenged to face the trial before the special court established under anti -terrorism act, at gilgit. the prosecution examined witnesses in all and also placed on record the report of fire arm expert, page exp a, report of chemical examiner exp a nd report of post mortem examination expw a to prove the charge. the accused in their statement under section cr.pc denied the charge and neither appeared in the witness box under section () cr. pc nor produced any witness in their evidence. the learned trial (b) ppc read with (a) of anti -terrorism act, and a fine of rs. lac each with direction that the fine on recovery shall be paid as compensation to the legal heirs of deceased under section -a cr. pc and in default of payment of compensation, each convict would undergo rigorous imprisonment for a term of one year. the accused ateeq hussain and shamir hussain were also convicted under section -d of arms ordinance and each one of them was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for years wit benefit of section cr. pc. the remaining accused were acquitted and murder reference under section of anti terrorism act, read with section cr. pc was sent to the chief court for confirmation of death sentence of the two convicts. the chief court in appeal preferred by the convicts maintained the conviction and sentence awarded to ateeq hussain and giving benefit of doubt to shamir hussain acquitted him from the charge. haji jamal khan and munir ahmed advocate hav addressed the court on behalf of ateeq hussain convict, whereas advocate general has appeared on behalf of the state in all the three connected petition and malik haq nawaz advocate appeared in these petitions on behalf of complainant. we have heard the learned counsel for the parties at length and also carefully perused the record with their assistance. the factual position of the evidence on record is as under: the shot was fired at deceased at about hrs on -- and report of the occ urrence was lodged at hrs at police station within half an hour of the occurrence. the prosecution instead of producing ghulam ali sole eye witness of the occurrence reli ed upon the circumstantial evidence. nowshad ali (pw -) star witness of prosecuti on was initially taken into custody as suspect in the case but subsequently he was cited as witness a nd his statement under section cr.pc was also recorded. nowshad ali( pw -) being not an eye witness of occurrence has no direct knowledge of the involv ement of any accused in the case, rather, he got information regarding involvement of ateeq hussain and his co accused in the occurrence by one page irfan and said irfan was not produced as witness by the prosecution. nowshad ali( pw further claimed th at shortly after the occurrence on shakeel disclosed the name of accused as culprits before sadaqat a police official near the scene of occurrence and subsequently he also narrated the occurrence to him but neither said shakeel nor sadaqat police cons table was produced. the prosecution case in addition to the statement of nowshad (pw rests on the medical evidence and recovery of weapon of offence at the instan ce of the accused alongwith empties recovered from the spot. the motive of sect arian ha tred has been attributed but no reliable evidence direct or circumstantial has been produced in support thereof. the prosecution has placed much reliance on the evidence of recovery of bore pistols at the instance of accused and crime empties from he spot which as per report of orensic science laboratory, have been found to have been fired from the pistols. shamir hussain was arrested on -- and he got recovered bore pistol from an open place on -- whereas ateeq hussain was arrested on -- and he led to the recovery of bore pistol on -- from shop of one muzafar volcanizer. the prosecution did not produce any public witness of the recovery of the pistol from ateeq hussain and shamir hussain so much so muzafa shopkeeper was also not produced to prove the recovery of pistol at the instance of ateeq hussain from his shop. the crime empties of bore pistol four in number recovered on the day of occurrence from the spot admittedly have been kept at the police station till recovery of the pistol and on -- both were sent together to the forensic science laboratory for expert opinion. in addition, the prosecution also placed reliance on the confessional statement made by ateeq hussain and shamir hussain efore superintendent of police under section -h of anti terrorism act, the learned counsel for the petitioner has con tended that there is no direct evidence of the involvement of accused in the case whereas the circumstantial evidence roduced by the prosecution also would not connect them with commission of offence and in any case the evidence brought on record is shaky which is not truthful and confidence inspiring to be relied upon. the learned counsel forcefully argued that nowshad pw-) has no direct knowledge of the occurrence and the persons who gave him information regarding involvement of the accused in the occurrence were not produced, in confirmat ion of his evidence based on hearsay knowledge. he forcefully argued that under qanoon -i-shahadat ordinance, hearsay evidence is not admissible to be made basis of convictio n. page the learned counsel next argued that the ghulam ali the sole eye witness of the occurrence was not produced for the reason best known to the prosecution and similarly, muhammad shakil and irfan before whom the accused made disclosure of the occurrenc having first hand knowledge narrated the story to nowshad (pw -) have not been produced. the learned counsel contended that the above named persons being the witnesses of extra judicial confession were most important witnesses of extra judicial confess ion were most important witnesses and their evidence was also material in the given facts and that without producing them, the statement of (pw would be of no use to prosecution. the learned counsel next submitted that the recovery of weapon of offenc (pistols) also has no evidentiary value because the crime empties recovered from the spot on the day of occurrence were kept in police custody at the police station till recovery of pistols from the accused and both were sent together in one parcel to the forensic science laboratory for expert opinion and consequently, no sanctity would be attached to the positive report of fire arm expert. he added that the recovery of pistol at the instance of one accused from an pen place and at the instance of other accused from the shop of vulcanizer was not proved through an independent and reliable evidence as no public witness was produced in proof of the recovery of pistols at the instance of accused, therefore, in the given facts the evidence of recovery of pistol would not be reliable. the learned counsel further contended that motive of sectarian hatred also has not been proved beyond doubt and argued that with exclusion of statement of nowshad (pw -) and evide nce of recovery from consideration, the conviction only on the basis of medical evidence and motive even if is believed would not be possible. in nutshell learned counsel argued that there was no direct evidence and the circumstantial evidence brought on ecord was not reliable, but unfortunately the trial court as well as the chief court in departure to the settled principle of criminal administration of malik haq nawaz, learned counsel for the complainant and learned advocate general vehemently argued that the nowshad pw was quite independent witness who had no relat ion with the complainant or enmity with the accused and his statement would seek ample corroboration from the page evidence of recovery read with report of forensic science laboratory according to which the empties recovered from the spot were found matched wit the pistols recovered from the accused and in absence of any private enmity of deceased with any person, there would be strong presumption of motive of sectarian hatred behind the occurrence. the learned counsel added that medical evidence would also su pport the prosecution story regarding the time of death and the nature of fire arm injuries on the person of deceased. the learned counsel and the learned advocate general have frankly conceded that chief court has rightly ignored the confessional st atement of accused made before police officer under section (h) of anti terrorism act, being not admissible in evidence under the law. they submitted that a retracted judicial confession if is found confidence inspiring may alone be sufficient to sustain conviction but in the light of the principle of safe criminal administration of the prosecution should being other evidence of independent character to prove the guilt of accused whereas, a concession before a police officer being not admissible in evidence would not be used against the accused. the reference has made to the judgment of supreme court of pakist an in mahram ali case (pld sc ). this is basic principle crimi nal administration of there is no cavil to the proposition of law that conviction can alone sustain on the basi of even a retracted confession made by an accused person before a judicial officer if it is found truthful and confidence inspiring and since no sanctity is attached with the confession of guilt before a police officer therefore such confession cannot be considered at par to the judicial confession and is not admissible in evidence to be made basis of conviction. the question of admissibility of confession before a police officer under section (h of anti-terrorism act, was considered by the supreme court of pakistan in mahram ali case (pld sc supra wherein it was held that confessional statement before a police officer was not admissible and observation was made for suitable amendment of section (h) of anti terrorism act, this is settled law that a confession made before a judicial officer subject to the credibility of statement is admissible in evidence whereas a confession made before a police officer or any other person in authority or a private person may have no legal sanctity and can hardly be treated an extra judicial confession in law. the confession of an accused under custody before a police officer may not be free from undue influence and coercion as police custody itself is considered coercion and a st atement during custody may not be voluntarily. this is settled principle of constitutional law that a person and accused of an offence cannot be compelled to be witness against himself and in that context page the judicial confession made by an accused voluntar ily before a magistrate which is recorded after fulfillment of legal requirement may be admissible as evidence against him but a confession made before police officer cannot be equated with the confession before magistrate because no presumption of its being voluntary can be attracted with such a statement. there is no compulsion for the court to accept the confessional statement of accused recorded by a judicial officer or a police officer but fact remains that a confession made before a judicial of ficer has evidentiary value to be accepted as evidence whereas a confession made before a police officer is not considered a legal evidence. the official authority of police officer may create an impression of compelling the accused to make confession and supreme court of pakistan in mehram ali v. federation of pakistan (pld sc having exhaustively dealt with the issue declared the provision of section -h of anti terrorism act, ultra vires to the article and of the constitution of pa kistan. the anti -terrorism act, is a federal law which has been made applicable in gilgit baltistan and a provision of federal law declared by the supreme court of pakistan ultra vires to the constitution of pakistan can no more treated as part of st atute and would have no legal effect. the retracted judicial confession if found confidence inspiring may alone be sufficient for conviction but the retracted judicial confession if is not found not found confidence inspiring, court may not give much weight to such confession or make it basis for conviction rather may use it as a corroborative evidence if other direct or circumstantial evidence unimpeachable character. in the light of principle of equality and equal protection of law as envisaged in article of the constitution of pakistan read with the gilgit baltikstan (empowerment and self governance) order, and subject to the principle of reasonable classification, different laws can validly be enacted for different persons in the society and particularly for heinous crimes but the test of reasonableness of the classification must be based on rational nexus as in a particular set of circumstances a reasonable thing, may be unreasonable in other set of circumstances. therefore he law applying to a particular crime such as terrorism and sectarian killing or other heinous offences may be constitutionally valid if it has a reasobable and rational nexu for classification but if it is not found on any rational basis it would be vi olative of the principle of equality and equal protection of law. the supreme court of pakistan in i.a sherwani case scmr and government of baluchistan through additional secretary v. azizullah memon (pld sc has laid down the criter ia of reasonableness of classification. the principle of criminal administration of the acquittal of the accused of such an offence on the page basis of technicalities of law, if otherwise the conscious of the court is satisfied about the quilt of accused is bad in law. the court however must also consider that there is a trend of false implication and it is common practi ce that even in normal transactions the police usually add the provision of anti -terrorism act, to make the case more heinous and similarly, the motiveless ca ses are declared either as result of act of terrorism or sectarian hatred. this is very dangerous trend and the court without ascertaining the evidentiary value of the evidence brought on record strictly in accordance with law may not be able to do the special court in terms of section of the anti -terrorism act, is a court of sessions and the provision of criminal procedure cod and qanoon -e-shahadat ordinance mutatus mutandi have been made applicable to the proceedings before a special court. therefore, notwithstanding the fact that anti -terrorism act, is a special law, the self contained provision of qanoon -e-shahadat ordinance and criminal proce dure code, would be followed in the cases under anti terrorism act, and no provision of anti terrorism act, would take overriding effect to the constitution of pakistan or gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, in the light of the above discussion there can be no departure to the principle that a confession before a police officer is not admissible in evidence under the provision of qanoon -e-shahadat ordinance and cannot be used as evidence against the accused at the trial at par to the judicial confession for the purpose of conviction. the confession before a police officer may carry the presumption of coercion and undue influence unless it is established on record that an accused voluntarily made a sta tement before a police officer quite free from an influence or coercion. the voluntary confession before a police officer who is not associated with the investigation of case may have the status of extra judicial confession which is very weak type of evid ence and cannot be relied upon without independent corroborative evidence of sound and unimpeachable character. in consequence to the above discussion we hold that the confession before a police officer is not admissible as evidence of guilt and prov ision of section -h of the anti terrorism act, being violative of article of gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, readwith article and of the constitution of pakistan unless suitably amended as observed by suprem court of pakistan in mehram ali case supra cannot be treated valid law. this is important to point out that in terrorism cases, usually direct evidence is not available and culprits may get undue benefit of the situation therefore, in the light of su preme court of pakistan in mahram ali case, the suitable amendment in section -h of anti –terrorism act, is necessary and chief secretary government of gilgit -baltistan will take up the page matter ministry of law, government of pakistan for the amendment in section -h anti terrorism act, on priority. reverting back to the case in hand we find that prosecution for the reason best known to it instead of producing direct evidence preferred to rely upon the circumsta ntial evidence. the non -production of ghulam ali a sole eye witness would not only create serious doubt qua guilt of the accused but would also demolish the entire persecution case. the main reliance has been placed on the evidence of nowshad (pw -) but th is witness has neither seen the occurrence nor he has direct knowledge of the involvement of the accused rather he was informed by irfan and shakeel that the accused have committed the offence and in that the statement of this witness at best is hearsay wh ich is not admissible in evidence to be made basis of conviction, as hearsay evidence in the light of the principle of criminal administration of the prosecution missed the necessary link of the statement of (pw and also failed to bring on record and reli able direct or circumstantial evidence. the remaining evidence left with the prosecution in the from of recovery of weapon of offence from the accused, the empties from the spot, the evidence of motive and medical also have no credential. the careful scrutiny of the recovery of pistol and the cr ime empties would show that the police withheld crime empties at police station till recovery of pistols from the accused and sent the same to the forensic science laboratory with the recovered pistols without any explanation. the withholding of crime empt ies at police station till recovery of pistols from accused would create a serious doubt in respect of credibility of this piece of evidence as the possibility of tempering with the empties would not be ruled out and in that on sanctity would be attached ith the report of the forensic science laboratory. with the exclusion of statement of (pw -) and evidence of recovery, the evidence of medical and motive alone would not prove the guilt of accused. the medical evidence is relevant only to the extend that he deceased sustained fire arm injuries on his person but this evidence neithe can identify the assailant nor would be helpful in proof of the fact that recovered pistols were used in the occurrence. the evidence of motive of sectarian hatred was also not proved though any reliable evidence. in the above circumstances the conclusion of guilt on the basis of perception that a motiveless case must be the result of sectarian hatred and conviction in such a case is a rule and acquittal is an exception wo uld be based on surmises and conjunctures. page in the light of the forging reasons, the leave to appeal filed by ateeq hussain against his conviction and sentence is converted into an appeal and is allowed. the conviction and sentence of a teeq hussain appellant is set aside and short order of even date is made part of this judgment which is read as under: for the reasons to be recorded late r, the cr.pla no. is converted into an appeal and is allowed. the conviction and sentence ateeq huusain appellant is set aside and he is directed to be released forth with, if not required in any other case. the connected cr. pla no. and cr. pla no. filed by complain ant and the state respectively are dismissed. the connected petitions are dismissed. a copy of this judgment will be sent to the chief secretary gilgit baltistan for taking necessary action for amendment of section -h of anti terrorism act, and copy shall also be directly sent to the secretary law, ministry of government of pakistan for his action in the matter. chief