page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. cr. pla no. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. zeebo another petitioners. the state respondent s. leave to appeal under artile of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order against the .. gilgit -baltistan chief court whereby the conviction sentence of seven years awarded by learned trial court was maintained and the criminal appeal no. was dismissed. for setting aside the judgment decree dated .. of chief court gilgit -baltistan and the acquittal of the petitioner from the above charges by accepting this petition and converting the same into an appeal to meet the ends of present: haji peer muhammad advocate for the petitioners. dated of hearing: --. judgment. page dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner challenged the concurrent findings of both the courts below i.e. the judgment passed in case no. dated ., whereby the petitioner were convicted on the charge under section ppc vide fir no. police station astore and both the petitioner have been sentenced to undergo for years rigorous imprisonment with the benefit of section -b cr.pc given to petitioner as the prosecution has proved its case beyond any reasonable oubts against the petitioner and on appeal the learned chief court gilgit baltistan upheld the findings of the learned trial court accordingly the appeal of the petitioner was dismissed vide .. in criminal appeal no. the earned counsel for the petitioner further contended that the concurrent findings of both the court below are against the facts, law and concept of criminal jurisprudence as there was no iota of evidence available on record and on the basis of non -reading and misreading of evidence both the courts fell error in convicting the petitioners. he further submits that there was no eye witness and both the judgments are page based on hearsay and circumstantial evidence, which is not admissible in law. we have heard he learned counsel for the petitioners, perused the record and gone through the judgments of both the courts i.e. the learned trial court and the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. in our considered view the judgment of trial court dated .. as well the judgment the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan on .. are well founded and well reasoned based on strong corroborated circumstantial evidence supported by the medical evidence. as no infirmity and illegality has been pointe out by the learned counsel for the petitioners, therefore, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. leave refused. both the judgments of the courts below are maintained. leave refused. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?