page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. -ud-din, judge. judge. cr. pla no. dsp babar khan now sp resident of sulta bad hunza. khan azam son of ali yar khan alias gullo aliabad hunza. petitioner respondents. sher suleiman son of shair ullah baig aminabad shishkat hunza district. respondent complainant. offences under sections ppc and of anti terrorism act, private complaint under section cr. pc against the petitioners. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan empowerment and self governance order against the impugne judgment -- of honorable chief court whereby the learned chief court has accepted revision petition of respondent by converting revision petition into an appeal and by setting aside, the impugned .. of anti terro rism court with the observation that section of ata doest not attract in this matter with direction to the special for setting aside the impugned judgment .. of learned chief court gilgit -baltistan order of the learned special present: on behalf of the petitioners. malik haq nawaz, senior advocate for the respondent. date of hearing: --. judgement. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj the learned counsel for the petitioner contended that on .., the petitioner alongwith the then chief minister, gilgit -baltistan, were on their way page to visit hunza but the effectees of atta -abad lake blocked the road at aliabad hunza in order to protest for not receiving the amount on account of assistance package announced by the government for the effectees of attabad disaster. he further submitt ed that the petitioner being police person nel were deployed thereto on account of escort to the then chief minister, gilgit -baltistan. the assistant commissioner, alongwith tehsildar hunza requested the mob rioters to give passage to the chief minister, who turned down their request. the petitioner no. alongwith his gunman namely khan a zam petitioner no. also went to the mob rioters and requested them to clear the road but unfortunately, the rioters instead of giving passage started throwing stones up on the petitioner and other police persons, resultantly, the petitioner got injures on his head and remain ed admitted in district head quarter hospital with effect from .. to ... the mob rioters did attack on aliabad police station as well, took the ammunitions weapons with them and burn out the police station. in result of the said clash two persons namely sher afzal sher ullah baig and sher ullah baig were killed in the said incident. subsequently, fir no. under section ppc read with section of anti -terrorism act, was lodged against the petiti oners. after conducting investigation the respondent failed to substantiate the version given in the said fir, consequently, the fir was discharged by the police. the learned counsel for the petitioner further contended that the respondent feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the order of the local police filed a private complaint against the petitioner in the court of special judge, anti -terrorism no.ii under sections no. ppc read with anti- page terrorism act, the learned special judge, anti -terrorism court no.ii, after adjudicating the case passed .. in cr. misc no. and dismissed the private complaint of the respon dents on the two scores i.e. (). it is not supported by sanction as required by section cr.pc. (ii). it does not fall within the four corners of section of anti terrorism act, which could bring it within the domain of the anti-terrorism court. the learned counsel for the petitioner further conten ded that the present respondent feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the order of the learned special judge, anti -terrorism court no.ii filed cr. revision no. before the learned chi ef court gilgit baltistan with the prayer that the .., the learned special judge, anti -terrori sm court no.ii may be set aside. upon hearing the said criminal revision, the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan vide its order ated .., partially allowed the revision petition. consequently, the .., the learned special judge, anti -terrorism court no.ii was set aside and the private complaint was transferred to the learned additional sessions hunza nagar for disposal of the same under ordinary jurisdiction in accordance with law. the learned counsel for the respondent while saying so submitted that the learned trial court took cognizance and examined the complainant and eye witnesses und er section cr.pc upon oath and other witnesses produced by the complainant but the learned trial court instead of proceeding further with the case dismissed the private complain of the complainant which is not tenable in law. page the learned counsel for the petitioner lastly contended that the .., the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan in criminal revision no. was passed without any cogent reasons, therefore, the same requires to be set aside. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent submitted that .., the learned special judge, anti -terrorism court no. ii, gilgit -baltistan in cr. misc no. was the result of misconception of law and facts. he further arg ued that due to fir ing of the petitioner precious lives of two () innocent persons have been taken away but the learned trial court instead of granting .pc, which was not only misconception of the law and facts but it is also a misreading and misinte rpretation of law. upon hearing, the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan vide its .., in cr.rev. no. rightly reversed the order of th learned trial court as it was not maintainable in law. he further contended that the .., the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan is based on facts and law, therefore, the same is required to be maintain ed. the learned ounsel for the respondent also contended that the requirement of the sanction for prosecution is no more there as the apex court of pakistan has struck off the provision of section cr.pc from the statut e. he further contended that he petitioner opene fire on the peaceful protestors, which created a sense of fear and insecurity in the general public as well. he also submitted that hough the .pc in respect of sanction for prosecution of public servants, similarly, section cr.pc would not protect any government official from initiating prosecution against them. both the section i.e. section cr.pc, are reproduced as under: protection against prosecution for acts done under this chapter. no prosecution against any person for any act purporting to be done under this chapter shall be instituted in any criminal court, except with the sanction of the provincial government: and: (a) no police officer acting under this chapter i good faith. (b) no officer acting under section in good faith. (c) no per son doing any act in good faith, in compliance with a requisition under section or section or s. -a) and (d) no inferior officer, or soldier, sailor or airman in the armed forces .. doing any act in obedience to any order which he was bound to obey. shall be deemed to have thereby committed an offence: provided that no such prosecution shall be instituted in any criminal court again any officer or soldier, sailor or airman in the armed forces except with the sanction of the central government. prosecution of judges and public servants. () when any person who is a or when any pub lic servant who is not removable from hi office save by or with the sanction of the central govern ment or a provincial government, is accused of any offence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his of ficial duty, no court shall take cognizance of such offence except with the previous sanction. (a) in the case of a person employed in connection with the affairs of the federation of the president; and (b) in the case of a person employed in connecti on with the affairs of a province, of governor of that province. page () power of president of governor as to prosecution. the president or governor, as the case may be, may determine the person by whom, the manner in which the offence or offence for which, the prosecution of such judge, magistrate or public servant is to be conducted, and may specify the court before which the trial is to be held the learned counsel for the respondent in support of his contentions relied upon the case i). federatio of pakistan zafar awan advocate reported in pld sc (larger bench (). muhammad akram the state and others, p.cr. lj, karachi and (). nausher ali muhammad ahmed other s, pld lahore, in case of federation of pakistan through secretary zafar awan advocate etc supra, he shariat appellate larger bench of the the governor of a province or any other ex ecutive authority as mentioned in s. cr.pc and s. (), criminal law amendment act, being repugnant to injunctions of islam, shariat appellate bench of the failing which these provisions of law would cease to have effect. the provisions of s., cr.pc and s. (), pakistan criminal law amendment act, act as clog or impediment for an aggrieved party aga inst a state functionary to seek redress in a court of law. granting the permission or not granting it, the law provides no guidance nor is the aggrieved party even to be informed of the grant or refusal of such a sanction. as the provisio page stands, it on the one hand, amount to stifling the prosecution of a genuine grievance and on the other hand protects absolutely the functionary, who commits the wrong or affords the grievance, the remedy cannot be denied to one having a legal right nor can the examination of the grievance be shut out at the absolute discretion of the competent authority. hence, these provisions, as they stand, are clearly violative of the injunctions of islam, which make all public power a trust and hence all persons exe rcising it accountable to the persons suffering at its hands, and this process of independent and regulated by properly set out guidelines for the prosecution and adjudication of causes. in case muhammad akram the state others supra, the learned high court of sind was pleased to observe that where statements of the complainant and his witnesses had revealed that a prima facie case against private respondent accused was made out for the purpose of further proceedings in this matter, but trial court dismissed private omplaint filed by complainant without affording opportunity to complainant to prove his ca se, had decided matter in a mann er as if a final adjudication was being made. high court accepting revision set aside order of the trial court and remanded case to same court for further proceedings. due to his illegality committed by the trial court the complainant was deprived of a full opportunity contained in his complaint. in case nausher ali muhammad ahmed and other the lahore high court lahore had held that where a persons was dissatisfied with the findings of the police in respect of the allegations levelled in his crime report, while the private complaint page lodged by him would be put to trial first, while the proceedings i the challan case would be stopped till the decision of the complaint case -- ----such preference would be given provided the complainant had filed the complaint against the same set of accused with the same allegation as mentioned by him in the fir. we have heard both the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the record of case file and gone through the impugned judgments of the courts below. we have also gone through the judgments relied upon by the learned counsel for the re spondent. in our considered view, the judgments referred by the learned counsel for the respondent are applicable, which support his contentions. the impugned .., in criminal revision no. the learned chief court, ilgit-baltistan is well reasoned and well founded as no infirmity and illegality has been pointed out by the learned counsel for the petitioner and the same is upheld. in view of the above, the petition is converted into an appeal and dismissed being me ritless. these are the reasons for the short ... the petitioners, however, will be at liberty to seek legal remedies during trial by moving application under section -k cr.pc for their acquittal, if no material evidence is produced by the complainant if they so advised. announced on: ... chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?