page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, at gilgit cr. p.l.a. no. (cr. transfer petition) judge. judge. hayat khan sami ullah thak tehsil chilas district diamer. petitioner the state and two others respondent leave to appeal u a of (empowerment and self governance) order, against the impugned judgment orders dated -- chief court gilgit baltistan. advocate for petitioner. date of hearing: --. order syed jaffar shah, father of deceased mohammad shakar, has claimed leave to appeal in terms of article of (gilgit baltis tan empowerment self governance) order, against --, a single bench of chief court, gilgit -baltistan, in criminal misc. no. whereby the single bench of chief court, has dismissed transfer application filed by pe titioner u cr. p.c. we have heard learned counsel for petitioner, who contended that the son of petitioner was murdered by the respondent accused in the year within the territorial jurisdiction of sessions and page the local police after necessary investigation has submitted challan before the sessions and the case is at final stage of trial. the main ground for transfer of sessions case as per learned counsel for petitioner is that due to friendly terms of relative of accused namely molvi afsar jan, with the sessions there is reasonable apprehension in the mind of petitioner, that trial court will not act fairly and impartially in the circumstances as such the case may be transferred from the dairy of sessions we afraid that this contention of learned counsel for the petitioner is not sufficient for transfer of case. it is settled principal of law, that the transfer of a case cannot be claimed as a matter of routine and at the wishes of any litigant unless it was apparent on the face of record that party seeking transfer of the case could not get fair and just treatment at the hands of a one who seeks transfer of the case should approach with cogent and plausible reasons. self procured mistrust and expression of having no trust or losing confidence in the court merely based on general and vague allegations is hardly sufficient to invoke the jurisdiction of the court u cr. p.c. page in the case in hand, the learned counsel for petitioner has not been able to point out any justification for our interference in the impugned order the learned chief court, gilgit -baltist an. we have also gone through the findings recorded by the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan, in impugned order and we find no perversity in the reasoning given by the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan. the upshot of the above discussion is that this petition is dismissed. leave refused.