page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit judge (in chamber) cr. pla no. (against the judgment .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in crim. misc bail petition no. .shah khalid son of mashroof kinner presently resides at chillas the state petitioner shafayatullah abad khan kiner tehsil chilas district daimer present in judicial lock up district jail diamer zeb alam haji lal mast khan kiner tehsil chilas district daimer present in judicial lock up district jail diamer ghandal shah hadan kiner tehsil chilas district daimer present in judicial lock up district jail diamer abdul latif hadan kiner tehsil chilas district daimer present in judicial lock up district jail diamer abad khan hadan kiner tehsil chilas district daimer present in judicial lock up district jail diamer lal mast khan hadan kinertehsil chil as district daimer present in judicial lock up district jail diamer respondent accused present: for the petitioner(s): shakoor khan advocate for the respondent(s): the deputy pro secutor general gilgit -baltistan for the state advocate date of hearing; .. page judgment date of detail judgment: 11th february, wazir shakeel ahmed, judge the above titled cr.pla has been preferred by the petitioner against the .., in cr. misc bail petition no. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan, whereby, the aforementioned bail petition filed by the present respondent accused was allowed. brief facts of the in stant lis narrated in the fir are that on .. the complainant alongwith his father (mashroof) were going to chilas bazar, when they reached near office chilas, the accused shahid, shoukat, imanullah, zeb alam and shafayatullah stopped th eir way and attacked at mashroof by hitting stones, dandas, due to which mashroof became unconscious and fell on the ground, meanwhile, accused inamullah hit at the head of mashroof with the handle of his pistol, while, accused shahid attacked with iron rod resulting into the death of the complainant father. the present respondent filed an application before the learned sessions court, diamer under section cr. pc for grant of post arrest bail. the learned sessions judge, after hearing the part ies, dismissed the said petition. being aggrieved with order of the learned sessions judge, the respondent preferred a criminal miscellaneous no. before the page learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. it would not be out of context to mention here that during the trial of the above petition, the complainant of the case, filed a transfer petition and the learned chief the complainant assailed the said order of the learned chief the order is reproduced as under: no purpose shall be served by going through the contents of the same, suffice it to find that a considerable period of time has elapsed, since, the presentation of bail petition bearing no before the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan, which seems to be filed on .., so it is just and expedient to dispose of the present petition, with the direction to the learned chief -baltistan chief court, to dispose of the aforesaid bail petition within four corners of law and facts and also keeping in view the attending circumstances of the matter in hand. vide my short judgment order, the cr. pla no. was partially admitted to the extent of respondent no. hence no purpose shall be served by discussing the lis to the extent of other respondent i.e respondent no. to the learned trial cour while rejecting the plea of alibi of the accused shafayatullah and zeb alam has rightly observed that the plea of alibi to the extent of the accused zeb alam on the basis of the affidavit in favor of the said accused was not tenable in the eyes of law at the bail stage, as admittedly the lawyers who furnished affidavit in favor of the accused zeb alam were page remained mum for a considerable period of time by not bothering to approach the police soon after the occurrence when the occurrence of broad day light murder was came into their knowledge. the learned trial court while rejecting the bail has rightly observed that the lawyers failed to file any application before any high ups of police in respect of recording their contention, nor knocked the door of th court of keeping in view of the above stated position, the affidavit filed by the learned lawyers is rightly held afterthought and to save criminals from the lawful arrest, whose ame has been specifically given by the complainant with his role. as far as the case of the shafayatullah is concerned, a photocopy of biometric receipt and kashrot inn hotel gilgit in out sheet of the hotel was rightly not relied by the trial court at the bail stage, specifically in the circumstances where the prosecution has failed to record to the statement of the relevant person i.e the hotel manager to substantiate his version. it is regretfully noted that the lower court has denied the bail petition of the accused in the case titled abdul hadi the state wherein, plea of alibi was flatly refused by the learned chief court on the single ground that the same plea cannot be looked into at the bail stage, in spite of the facts that the case of the accused person in the above case was on the stronger foot than the present one. page above are the detail reasons of my sh ort .., which is reproduced under: for the reasons to be recorded later, this cr. pla no. is partially admitted to the extent of respondent no. shafayatullah and zeb alam respectively. the impugned order to the extent of above named respondent is hereby set aside. the respondent shafayatullah shall be taken into custody and committed to judicial lock up, the respondent zeb alam, who has allowed to take part in the examinations shall surrender by himself before the trial court on the next date of hearing, failing which the law shall take its own course. detail judgment shall be followed on separate papers. the cr.pla to the extent of remaining respondent is hereby dismissed, as the case to their ext ent is almost ripped up before trial court. the instant cr. pla is disposed of in the above terms announced .. (yes no