page judgment sheet in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan. pla no: faizan rehmat son of kamran mughal, resident of abbotabad, tehsil district abbotabad, presently in judicial lock up district jail chillas, district diamer. petitioner accused the state respondent criminal leave to appeal under article of the governmnt of gilgit -baltistan order against the impugned judgment .. chief court gilgit baltistan, gilgit, in criminal misc no whereby the for setting aside th impugned judgment .. and for the petitio ner accused may graciously be allowed to furnis local sureties personal bonds inste ad of bank guarantee to meet the ends of present: -u-din advocate for the petitioner accused. deputy prosecutor general for respondent state. order wazir shakeel ahmed, j----- through this single judgment, we intend to dispose of the above titled cr. pla no along with connected cr. pla no. as both the cases pertains to transaction of commodities i.e pine nut (chalghoza) between the parties inter -se. page brief facts of the matter in hand are summarized as under: one muhammad qasim jamshed khan filed an application under section -a cr.pc before the court of district and sessions the district and sessions judge, while disposing the petition directed to lodge fir against the persons nominated in the fake application under section -f, and ppc, against the present petitione and others which culminated into lodging of fir no. dated ... later on, one imam hadi submitted an application at ps city chillas for lodging of an fir against the petitioner named above for issuance of a cheque amounting to rs. ,, (one crore), and the case was got registered under fir no. against the present petitioner under section -f, and ppc and the petitioner was arrested on ... on .., the petitioner got filed two bail petitions bearing no. and before the court of learned judicial magistrate chillas. after hearing the parties the learned judicial magistrate allowed the bail petitions subject to furnishing of a bank guarantee by the petitioner to the tune of rs., ten crore) and rs. ,, one crore) in cases and respectively. being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the order of learned judicial magistrate, the petitioner filed miscellaneous petitions before the learned addl. dist rict and sessions judge, chillas, who vide .., dismissed both the petitions bearing no. by maintaining order of the judicial page magistrate. the above order of the addl. district and sessions judge, chillas, were challenged before the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan at gilgit, through criminal miscellenous petition no. and filed under section cr.pc to the utmost dissatisfaction of the petitioner. learned chief court also dismissed the two petitions thr ough a single ... hence the present cr.plas. we have heard learned counsel for the petitioner as well as learned deputy prosecutor general, at length and also gone through the record of the case with their able assistance and while doing so, we have painfully observed that while passing the bail order the learned trial court miserably failed to apply its judicious mind to the facts and the law involved in the case and wrongly, rather illegally disposed of the bail petitions on the ground of consensus of the parties qua the petitioner and the complainant respondents, who have shown to have willfully arrived in consensus that the trial court may dispose of the bail petition as the complainant has shown his consen that he has no objection in passing of the bail order, provided that, the petitioner furnishes bank guarantee of rs.,, ten crore) and rs. ,, one crore) in cases and respectively. the record of the case transpires that the trial court has allowed the bail petition on the basis of whims of the complainant and have allegedly shown their non -objection if the bail petition is allowed subject to above laid down condition. the record of the case is altogether silent regarding willingness of the petitioner to furnish bank guarantee as mentioned above and how on earth a party can undertak to furnish a bank guarantee to rs. (ten crore), in a page case wherein, there is no single iota of any occasion of issuance of any cheque by the petitioner in that case i.e fir no. it is further regrettably found that both the learned district court as well as chief court misconceived the facts of the case by wrongly ascertaining that he bail petitions were allegedly disposed of on the basis of consent of parties. both the courts below should have at least gone through the facts entailing initiation of the case under fir no. against the petitioner which has shown to be registered by the order of the learned sessions judge, diamer, by one qasim jamshed khan, wherein the said muhammad qasim complainant had alleged business transactions of the complainant party that waqas ali, salman butt, muhammad bilal and the presen petitioner faizan rehmat pertaining to business of chalghoza. in the said application under section -a cr.pc, there is an allegation of issuance of series of cheques issued by one waqas ali in favor of alamiqbal, niaz muhammad, muhammad qasim a nd haq nawaz amounting to rs. ,, four crore fifty lac s), rs. ,,, three crore and thirteen lac s), rs. ninety six thousand) and rs. (forty lacs), which nearly goes up to rs. ten crores). nowhere in th said application, there is any mention of the present petitioner showing to have issued any single cheque to any person regarding the said transaction. so, in this way the petitioner was illegally robbed in the case under fir bearing no. and he was wrongly rather illegally directed to furnish bank guarantee of rs. ten crores) we in the light of the contents of the present petition, filed under section -a cr.pc, and also on the basis of the page submissions of the learned counsel for the petitioner confined ourselves in allowing the relief sought in the said two petitions in hand i.e and further, the petitioner is at liberty to seek redressal from the court of competent jurisdiction in light of facts of the case, as observed above. before parting with this judg ment, we intend to discuss the relevant section cr.pc, which is reproduced herein under for ready reference. (). bond of accused and sureties: before any person is released on bail or released on hi own bond, a bond for such sum of money as the police officer or court, as the case may be, thinks sufficient shall be executed by such person, and when he is released on bail, by one or more sufficient sureties conditioned that such person shall attend a the time and place mentioned in the bond, and shall continue so to attend until otherwise directed by the police officer or court, as the case may be. (). if the case so requires, the bond shall also bind the person released on bail to appear when called upon at the high court, court of session or other court to answer the charge. it is well settled principle of law that an accused person is said to be admitted to bail when he is released from th custody of police court and is entrusted to the custody of persons known as his sureties, who are bound to produce him to answer, at a specified time and place, to face charge and in case of default of doing so are liable to forfeit ure of such a sum as is specified when the bail is granted. likewise, ection cr.pc enacts that: as soon as the bond has been executed, the person for whose appearance it has been executed, shall be released page the question of furnishing of a bank guarantee can only arise in a situation when the accused person is unable to furnish two () solvent local sureties to the satisfaction of the court and his willing to furnish bank guarantee, as has seems to be done in the present case but with the slight difference that the trial court miserably failed to get an undertaking in written in the case in hand by the present petitioner, regardin his willingness to furnish bank guarantees in case of allowing of bail petition to the satisfact ion of the trial court. above are the detailed reasons of our short .., passed in cr. pla no. and respectively. file. announced: .. chief