page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan, gilgit. chief judge. judge. cr.pla. no. dfo gilgit petitioner. hashim wali respondent. present:- rehmat ali advocate- on-record for the petitioner. date of hearing: ... order. this leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned chief court gilgit-baltistan whereby the appeal of the petitioner was dismissed by quashing the conviction given by the magistrate 1st class gilgit dated .. while discharging the bail bonds. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that on .. one employee of the wildlife department filed a complaint before the petitioner regarding illegal hunting of markhor at kargah nalla by the respondent. he also submits that in the light of the said complaint the petitioner requested the learned assistant commissioner gilgit to depute a magistrate in order to apprehend the respondent under the provisions of wildlife preservation act, page he submits that in the light of request made by the petitioner the assistant commissioner gilgit deputed a magistrate namely chiraghuddin to search the house of respondent in presence of police and notables of locality. subsequently the police in presence of the magistrate recovered kgs meat alongwith rifle from the house of respondent and produced the same before assistant commissioner gilgit. the assistant commissioner under section cr. pc awarded months imprisonment and imposed fine of rs. including hunting fee and failing which he shall be imprison for a term of months in addition. he further submits that the respondent being aggrieved filed a petition under section cr. pc against the judgment .. the magistrate 1st class gilgit before the learned vacation the petitioner being aggrieved filed cr. misc.no. before the learned sessions upon hearing the learned sessions ... whereafter the petitioner filed cr. appeal no. before the learned chief court which upon hearing was dismissed vide impugned .., hence, this leave to appeal. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned chief page court gilgit-baltistan. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned .. the learned chief court. in view of the above, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal and the leave is refused accordingly. consequent thereto, the impugned .. in cr. appeal no. the learned chief court is maintained. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge.