page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. review no. in cr. appeal no. qareebullah son of said hussain shah (convict of military trial court -field general court martial, presently in judicial lock up at central jail sahiwal. petitioner. federation of pakistan, secretary ministry defence through force commander, gilgit -baltistan pakistan army at gilgit and others. respondents. cr. review no. in cr. appeal no. molvi dilbar son of kashkar three others convict of military trial court -field general court martial, presently in judicial lock up at central jail sahiwal. petitioners. federation of pakistan, secretary ministry of defence through force commander, gilgit -baltistan pakistan a rmy at gilgit and others. respondents. cr. review no. in cr. appeal no. irfanullah alias umar son khuda yar (convict of military trial court -field general court martial, presently in judicial lock up at centra jail sahiwal. petitioner. federation of pakistan, secretary ministry of defence through force commander, gilgit -baltistan pakistan army at gilgit and others. respondents. page present: date of hearing: ... date of announcement of order: ... order. the aforementioned cr. review petition have arisen out of the common impugned .. in cr. appeal no. this court whereby the said criminal appeal filed by the petitioner were dismissed by affirming the common impugned .. in writ petitions nos. ,, the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed these review petitions for setting aside the impugned judgment. the review petitions were heard on ... consequently, the order was reserved and the same is announced today. we have heard the learned counsels for the petitioner at length, perused the material on record and gone though the impugned judgment of this court and an unreported judgment of the .. in civil petition no. titled muhammad farhan khan federation of pakistan others, referred by the learned counsel for the petitioner which is distinguishable. the learned counsel for the petitioner also could not point out any infirmity or illegality in the impugne .. this court. page in view of the above, the aforesaid criminal review petition are dismissed by upholding the common impugned .. in cr. appeal nos. this court. the cr. review petition are dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.