page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. criminal appeal no .. in cr.pla. no. salahuddin son of adam khan parishing khangrool tehsil district astore. petitioner. the state through police station astore. respondent. charge under section -f(v), -a, ,, ppc vide fir no. section arms ordinance vide fir no. of police station astore. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order against the impugned judgment order gilgit -baltistan chief court dated .. in criminal misc. no. whereby accepting bail cancellation application of respondent the bail .. the sessions present: the advocate general on behalf of the respondent. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that an fir no. was lodged against the petitioner at police station astore under section -f (v), -a, and ppc and fir no. under section arms ordinance. he page further submi ts that the petitioner moved an application for grant of bail in the court of learned sessions school going and the role assigned against the petitioner in the fir is against the facts of the case. the alleged role assigned to the petitioner was on the basis of misstatement of the rival party, hence, the case is of further inquiry. upon hearing the bail application the learned trial court granted bail to the petitioner vide ... he also submits that the respondent being aggrieved filed criminal misc. no. in the learned chie court gilgit -baltistan whereby the said criminal misc was allowed and the bail facility granted to the petitioner was cancelled vide .., hence, this leave to appeal. he also submits that the order the learned trial court was in accordance with law and facts of the case whereas the .. the learned chief court is the result of misconception of law and misreading non reading of the record of the case file, therefore, the same is not tenable and liable to be set aside to meet the ends of he submits that prima facie the case of the petitioner is of fu rther inquiry which entitles him for grant of bail. further he is a juvenile and cannot be kept in jail for indefinite period as otherwise the law permits him to release on bail. page on the other hand, the learned advocate general supports the impugned .. the learned chief court. he contends that the said judgment is in accordance with the law and facts of the case, hence, the same is required to be maintained being well reasoned and well founded whereas the order ated .. the learned sessions he further contends that the petitioner accu sed have been nominated by the complainant in fir as they have been attributed role in commission of the aforesaid offence. he finally contends that the impugned order the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court may graciously be upheld to meet the ends of justice. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner as well as the learned advocate general at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in criminal misc. no. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan and the .. of the learned trial court astore. we are in agreement with the learned counsel for the petitioners. in view of the above discussion, in our considered view the case of the pet itioner is of further inquiry which attracts the provision of sub section of section cr.p.c. further page he is a juvenile and law permits to release him on bail. we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned chief court is set aside whereas the .. of the learned trial court astore is maintained being well reasoned and well founded. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?