page in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan gilgit. cr.pla no. judge. judge. shakoor muhibullah batogah chilas present confined in judicial lockup district jail dia mer. (petitioner) the state respondent charges under section ppc vide f.i.r. no. readwith section a.o. f.i.r. no. p.s. city chilas. leave to the impugned orders dated pas sed by the chief court in bail application no. and sessions dated -- whereby learned courts refused bail facility to the petitioner. for setting a side the same by converting the eave to appeal into appeal and petitioner may be allowed bail facility and released on bail to meet the ends of justice. present: advocate general gilgit -baltistan for respondent. advocate for petitioner. date of hearing: .. order raja jalal ud din, -baltistan dated -- which was turned down initially the application for bail was not allowed by the trial court and bail facility refused vide rder dated --. page the petitioner is of the view that initially accused namely shakoor the present petitioner, one naseer and jam gull were implicated. the co -accused jam gull was released by the police under section cr. p.c. while accused nase er was granted bail by the trail court vide -- the counsel for the petitioner is of the firm view that merits of the case are of the nature which call for further inquiry and the entitlement of bail to the petitioner accused. secondly that equal role has been attributed to all the nominated accused, hence the petitioner is entitled for the concession of bail on the grounds of consistency, party and equality. the story put forwarded by the prosecution is full of doubt, improbabl and cannot be take into account. the incident as narrated in the f.i.r. disclosed that it is a night occurrence supplemented by rain, hence the identification of accused is not probable in the dark circumstances with the torch light. the state on he other hand is of the view that the petitioner accused is directly charged for the commission of offence by fire shot opened by him. the weapon of offence has also been recovered proving that offence has been committed in the manner stated. the statement of eye witnesses alonghwith the other material placed on record makes a good prima -facie case against the petitioner accused. page we have given through to the contentions raised by both the parties and have also perused the record. the f.i.r. no. of police station city chilas clearly discloses the presence of the witnesses as well as the direct nomination of the accused, and the separate role played by them. it is observed to have opened the fatal fire shot at the deceased and his role in the commissi on of offence is not at par with the role played by other co -accused because direct charge of the fatal fire shot has been attributed specifically to the present petitioner accused. the role of the released co -accused is not at par with the present case. econdly the statement of pw as well as the recovery of other articles has not been constructed after any fatal delay which may raise doubts in the manner in which the occurrence has taken place. it would not be necessary to comment on the other parts of the case and would not be appropriate to go into further details of the case as it would be fatal to the final outcome of the matter. the other discussion and reasons given in the present order may not influence the trail in view of the above mentioned facts we are of the view that the concession of bail is not granted in favor of the page petitioner accused as there is a prima facie case existing against th petitioner accused. announced: --