page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. (appellate jurisdiction) cr.pla no. chief judge. judge. judge. the state .. petitioner asif abbass musa hamid gadh skardu. abideen raza hameed garh skardu. ghulam mehdi ahmad hameed garh skardu. basharat hussain musa karisma thang skardu. safdar hussain salman hameed garh skardu. nasir nisar ali choumik skardu. yousuf ghulam mehdi hameed garh skardu respondents. advocate general gilgit -baltistan. date of hearing:---. order rana muhammad arshad khan, cj: this petition has been preferred against the .., the learned division bench of the chief court gilgit -baltistan, whereby, the application no. for post arrest bail, filed by the respondents, was accepted and they were released on bail. the facts in brief as gleaned out from the record are that the respondent were allegedly encroaching upon the state land when district collector skardu reached at the site alongwith the police officials. the respondent reportedly mounte an assault on the district collector skardu. subsequent thereof, the case fir no. was registered against the respondent under section (ii), ppc read with section anti -terrorism act, page five accused persons were arrested on .. whereas the remaining four accused person were arrested on .. and were sent to judicial lockup. it is pertinent to mention here that the two accused persons were not challaned. the respondent herein moved an application for post arrest bail in the court of -terrorism court no. at gilgit. the application was declined vide ... the respondent, thereafter, moved an application for post arrest bail in the chief court gilgit -baltistan. the applicati on was accepted and respondent were ordered to be released on bail. the state feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied directed the instant leave to appeal before this court against the .. the learned division bench the chief court gilgit -baltistan. the learned advocate general argued that the learned division bench did not adhered to the legal provisions of section (m) of the anti -terrorism act, and granted them bail vide .. which i liable to be set aside. he argued further that the respondent mounted an attack on public servants and deter the public servants from discharging of their duty causing serious hindrance in their function as public servants. they are not at all entitled to any discretionary relief. we have heard the learned advocate general at length. the plain reading of the orders impugned makes it abundantly clear that the learned division bench has taken note of all the legal provisions and thereafter passed speaking order. even otherwise the respondent were arrested on .. and they remained in judicial lockup for about two months. the challan has page been submitted and the charge has also been framed. the trial is in progress and the evidence is being recorded. there is no complaint, whatsoever, that the respondent accused have made any attempt to temper with the evidence of the prosecution nor have they misused the concession of the bail granted to them. no useful purpose will be served while sending them in he judicial lockup for uncertain period particularly when they are not causing any hindrance in the progress of the trial. even otherwise, the grounds for the grant of bail are absolutely different than that of cancellation of bail. in view of what has bee discussed above, this grant of leave is dismissed being meritless and without any substance. leave refused. chief