page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. appeal no. deng xiao bin director pak china sost port company (pvt) office situated at sost gojal hunza. zhang i director pak china sost port company (pvt) office situated at sost gojal hunza, resi dents of people republic of chin a presently residing at sost dry port gojal hunza, district hunza nagar. petitioner registrar joint stock companies gilgit -baltistan gilgit. zafar iqbal chairman silk route dry port trust, sost resident of village passu gojal hunza. abdul rauf director silk route dry port trust, sust dry port building resident of gojal hunza. iqbal karim director silk route dry port trust, sost village nazimabad gojal hunza. respondent leave to appeal unde aticle of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance order) against the impugned order -- the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. present:- .rehmat ali advocate -on-record on behalf of the respondents. page date of hearing: --. date of judgment: ---. judgment to are subscribers and irectors of pak china sost port company (pvt) limited hereinafter referred as jv company, having its head office situated at sust gojal hunza. the parent company of petitioner namely sionot rans group xingiang company limited is a company registered in china whereas, silk rout dry port trust is a local ly registered institution represented by the chairman and board of directors. .that as per articles of association as well as agreement made previously between sionotrans group xinx giang company and silk rout dry port trust incorporated a joint venture private limited company in the name and style of pak china sost dry port trust company (pvt) limited wherein directors and chair man were to be nominated by sionotrans group xin gxiang compa ny and a vice chairman and two irectors were to be nominated by silk rout dry port trust and its each and every meeting was to be convened by the chairman and in case of his absence the vice chai rman having a quorum of at least three directors, two from petitioner and one from respondent side. on the direction of the learned chief court g.b. given in -- as a result of an application filed under section of compani es ordinance by the respondent no. vide case no.c.misc. which was not challenged in ap peal or otherwise by th petitioner s, chairman bod or managing director being heads of management of the jv company. the respondent no. registrar joint stock companies g.b. convened 8th meeting of the bod and in the said page bod meeting except petitioner no., other two irectors from chinese side did not participate and therein, some decisions in respect of jv company affairs were taken to be approved by the next meeting to held within days which infa ct not held till ate. the petitioner being the irectors and responsible for running and managing all administrative affairs of the company, instead arranging bod meetings and running affairs of the comp any as per law and directions of chief court, filed an application before the chief court gb under section of companies ordinance which was di smissed hence the petitioner filed cpla no. which has been granted and the same has been converte into appeal vide our --. the learned counsel for petitioner argued and sought declaring the bod meeting and its decision illegal and void on the sole point that the respondent no. had no jurisdiction and authority under section companies ordinance to issue directives and pass orders in this regard after promulgation of companies amended ordinance under which registrar joint stock companies has no powers except to register a company recommended by security and exchan ge commission of pakistan (secp). he further argued that even during the meeting of board of directors, the petitioner no. present therein challenged and opposed the powers and authority of the respondent no. to convene the said eeting of bod by the re gistrar joint stock of companies in absence of prior approval authority from the chairman of secp under the referred law. the learned counsel for res pondent forcefully defended the impugned judgment and order and argued that the petitioner being the irectors and top management concerns were under obligation to convene bod meetings regularly run the affairs of the company smoothly as per legal requirement of the concerned provisions of companies ordinance and articles of association which the petitioner utterly failed to comply with. thus as a result of case no. filed by the respondent no. under section of page companies ordinance the honorable chief court gb passed an order on to convene the meeting in this regard. he convening of 8th bod meeting by respondent no. as registrar joint stock companies was a act of implementation of the irections of chief court gb referred above. he further contended that as per articles of association, resolution of the bod passed in its 7th meeting in as well as agreements between parties made previously to be more specifically the contract of cooperative business cooperation of pak china sust port joint stock company (pvt) ltd date both parties of china and pakistan side are under legal obligation to act upon the provisions of articles of association in respect of rights, powers, positions and assigned role to be played in the joint venture company. as per articles of association, the elections and selection of chairman, vice chairman and irectors of the bod of the respective parties of jv company is the internal affair of the respective party as such none of the parties have a right to object or oppose to the nominations of direct ors, chairman or vice chairman nominated by either side. he further argued that despite various requests the refusal of holding of meeting of bod non acceptance of elected and nominated directors and vice chairman of the respondent no. to by the peti tioners is in violation of articles of association, agreements between the parties and the section of companies ordinance the petitioner have challenged the holding of 8th bod meeting dated 16th june convened by the registrar joint stoc companies gb and sought relief vide petition under section of companies ordinance and prayed as under: it is therefore, humbly prayed that by accepting this petition, disputed meeting of bod and decisions taken in the said meeting may very graciously be declared as unlawful and ab -initio void in the interest of justice the record reveals that the espondents no to became irectors and the respondent no. as chairman of silk route dry port trust page sost as a result of an election process held in thus became legally entitled to represent the silk oute dry port trust in the jv company as ex officio directors and the vice chairman as per article and of articles of association of the jv company. as a result of elections of the silk route dry port trust, the ex chairman of dry port trust on but avoided to leave post of vice chairman of the dry port trust jv company. as per above referred articles of association of jv company, there is a term of three years tenure for a director, the hairman and vice chairman accordingly. despite lapse of five years as direc tors, -. as a result, the present respondent no. moved an application under section of companies ordinance before chief court gb against the management and bod members and sought restraining of illegal functi oning of sai vice chairman directors representing silk route dry port trust in the jv company whose term was lapsed but they were holding the post illegally and allowing the respondent no. to function as vice chairman of sost dry port trust jv company, which was allowed by the chief court gilgit in its of the case no. c. misc. wherein the learned chief court directed the respondent no. registrar joint stock companies gilgit baltistan as under: in the light of above discussi ons the registrar joint stock companies gilgit baltistan is directed to convene the board meeting of joint company within one month of this order it is to be noted here that the chairman bod and managing director fully represented in the above case on behalf of jv company and contested in the title case no. c. misc. but did not file any appeal, revision or writ petition against the said order of chief court giving the verdict a finality in the eyes of law. page that the respondent no. acted upon the directions given by the honorable chief court gb and convened the meeting of bod of the jv company on 16th june, and made some decisions therein to be approved by the next bod meeting to be held within next days. the petitioner manag ement of jv company instead of holding 9th bod meeting within days accordingly, challenged the holding of 8th bod meeting though the c. misc. before the learned chief court which has been straight away dismissed and remarked as under in the im pugned order: the undue interference by the party a besides relaxed attitude of the registrar joint stock companies gb in the presence of clear cut orders of the court is the reflection that the company can only be run on the wishes and whims of the pro blem creators instead of clearly provided articles of association. the petition no. is nothing except to delay the transition of the affairs of the company and to defeat the ends of the registrar joint stoc companies is strictly directed to ensure that each and every person connected with the company should take over their own function within thirty days of this order that the case file reveals that the bod meeting in dispute was not convened by the respondent no. in exercise of powers given under section of companies ordinance at his own sweet will or under influence of the any other respondent as alleged in para no of the memo of leave to appeal rather the meeting was conv ened on the directions of the learned chief court gb given in the referred above against which the representative head of jv company the chairman bod managing director being party to same case fully participated and contested the case but interestingly did not challenge it by filing any kind of appeal or revision against the same thus the contention raised by the learned counsel for petitioner based on a presumption is not tenable. that the main contention of learned counsel for petitioner is based on the sole point that after promulgation of companies ordinance amendment act all the powers enjoyed by the page registrar have been assigned to commission thus the acts done by registr ar in this regard is without authority. as discussed before, firstly the convening of meeting of bod by registrar was not a sweet will or an act under the influence of other respondent rather the same was implementation of ourt order and secondly due to non establishment of securities exchange commission in gilgit baltistan yet, the registrar joint stock companies gilgit baltistan exercises all powers including registration of companies other orporate issue in gb. that it is interesting here to note that all the corporate matters including the registration of companies have been undertaken in gb under the provisions of companies ordinance since long in absence of enforcement of the same in gb. factually the companies ordinance was enfor ced and adapted by the ministry of kana islamabad vide notification no. f.() -na- dated 17th february, in the name of northern areas companies ordinance (adaptation enforcement) order as under: no. f. () -na-i government of pakistan kashmir affairs northern areas, division islamabad the 17th feb. an order to adapt, apply and enforce the companies ordinance to the northern areas. whereas, it is expedient to adapt, apply and enforce the companies ordinance (xlvii of in the northern areas and for matters connected therewith and ancillary thereto. now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section -b of the no rthern areas council legal framework order read with entry of s.no. of schedule –ii to the rules of business the government of pakistan is pleased to make the following order: short title and commencement: () this order may be called he northern areas companies ordinance (adaption and enforcement) order it extends to the whole of northern areas. it shall come into force at once. enforcement of the companies ordinance the companies ordinance (xlii of shall as in force immediately before the commencement of this order, and all rules notification and orders made or issued there -under mutatis mutandis and as far as practicable apply to the northern areas. no.f. () na -i) page sd (muhammad aktar khan) the above notification makes it clear that the companies ordinance has been made enforced and applicable in gilgit baltistan february vide above notification and prior to it factually the companies act was enforced in gb as the same was made applicable to northern areas vide notification no.reg -h.c.ntf dated --. it would be not appropriate at the moment to touch or discuss the legitimacy of all actions including the registration of hundreds of companies made under companies ordinance by the joint stock companies northern areas prior to its adaptat ion enforcement in gb, we restrict our self to the instant case and discus the corporate history of gb for an academic discussion. instead of establishing an independent i nstitution of joint stock companies in gb after promulgation of companies act the ministry of kana islamabad assigned this task to planning development department gilgit by appointing the then additional commissioner now the secretary planning as registrar and the assistant chief as assistant registrar vide notificati on no.d () dated which states as under: government of pakfistan kashmir affairs northern affairs division block ist floor islamabad, the 21st february no.d () order in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section () of section of the companies act (vii of ), the government of pakistan is pleased to appoint the additional commissioner (development) northern areas, and the assistant chief in the office of the additional commissioner and assistant registrar to be the registrar and assistant registrar respectively of joint stock companies for the northern areas. sd (akbar hayat khan deputy secretary to the government of pakistan page naturally, the respondent no. in addition to his departmental work as secretary d, have to perform their dual work as registrar joint stock companies as well, thus cannot give proper time and attention to regulate and monitor the corporate sector issues properly as a result such kind of situation erupt that even foreign companies are functioning in gilgit baltistan openly without going through the legal formalities and even they avoid to follow and abide by laws of the land. such kind of corporate regulatory system exists nowhere in the world as a result big board like scandals happened in this region resulting looting of hundreds of poor families. the learned chief .b. council to establish security exchange commission in gb as a result of promulgation of northern areas security and exchange commission act (adaption and enforcement rder vide notification issued by no.f.() -na-, dated 17th february has directed the authorities to establish a joint stock companies perha ps due to having no knowledge of promulgation of the above law in gb. the above referred notification reads as under: no.f. -na- government of pakistan kashmir affairs northern areas division islamabad the 17th february an order to adapt, apply and enforce the securities and exchange commission of pakistan act (xlii of in the northern areas. whereas, it is expedient to adapt, apply and enforce the securities and exchange comm ission of pakistan act (xlii of in the northern areas and for matters connected therewith and a ncillary there to. now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by of the northern areas council legal frame work order, read ith entry of serial no. of schedule -ii to the rules of business the government of pakistan is pleased to make the following order: page short title extent and commencement: () this order may be called the northern areas security and exchange co mmission act adaption and enforcement order it extends to the whole of northern areas. .it shall come into force at once. enforcement of the securities and exchange commission act, .the securities and exchange commission of pakistan act (xlii of shall, as in force immediately before the commencement of this order, and all rules notification and orders made or issued there under, mutatis mutandis and as far as practicable, apply to the northern areas. no.f.() .na -i) sd (muhammad akhtar khan) deputy secretary nas) coming to the point of learned counsel for petitioner that vide companies ordinance amendment act the registrar of joint stock of companies gb seizes authority to exercise his powers given under section of the companies ordinance as the same have been vested with the security exchange commission. it is pertinent here to mention that in the companies laws ordinance was not applicable in gilgit baltistan rather the companies act was in operation. however it is true that after promulgation of northern areas companies ordinance (adaption an enforcement) order dated and northern areas securities exchange commission act (adaptation enforcement order norther dated theoretically all the powers covered under section should be exercised by the commission provided the same is in existence. although the law of nas security exchange commission was applicable in gb since but neither the gilgit baltistan council nor government of gilgit baltistan bothered to establish the commission till date. as a result, the registrar of companies is still exercising the powers including the registration of companies and their ancillary matters as per past practice which is understandable. thus if the contention of the learned counsel for petitioner is strictly fo llowed then the legitimacy of the hundreds of companies as well as petitioner own jv company pak china sost port company (pvt) limited itself suffers as the same has been registered in by the registrar joint stock companies gb. no doubt there is a acuum in respect of the existence of commission in gb thus in absence of such institution the acts done by page the registrar of joint stock companies cannot be throw away and declared as illegal and unlawful in toto. until and unless an independent institut ion of security exchange commission is established in gb, the registrar of joint stock companies gb is justified to follow the past practice. the representative of joint stock company a summary has been moved to chief minister gb to ask the security exchange commission of pakistan to take over the affairs in gb as well. we hold that such an attempt would be illegal and unlawful as the security exchange commis sion of pakistan being a federally legislated institution functions under security exchange commission of pakistan act having jurisdiction to function and operate in the territorial limits of pakistan defined in article of constitution of pakistan and not beyond those limits such as gilgit baltistan and azad jammu kashmir. it is an admitted fact that the gilgit baltistan is not constitutional part 0f pakistan and does not fall under the territories defined in the const itution of pakistan as mentioned above and the people herein have no representation in the parliament of pakistan as well as other constitutional institutions as such any law legislated by the federal parliament does not become applicable to gilgit balti stan until and unless the same is adapted or enforced in gilgit baltistan by ministry of gb islamabad as government of pakistan with certain amendments and modifications through executive orders. thus the extension of jurisdiction of security exchang commission of pakistan to gilgit baltistan to operate its offices would be unconstitutional and an act without authority as the law applicable in gilgit baltistan is northern areas security exchange commission act (adaptation enforcement) order the government of gilgit baltistan instead of involving and asking security exchange commission of pakistan to extend its jurisdiction to gilgit baltistan, should ask gilgit baltistan council, being its subject, to establishment its own commission havi ng restricted jurisdiction within the territorial limits of gilgit baltistan as defined in northern areas exchange page commission act (adaptation enforcement) order as happened in cases of establishment functioning of various independent institutions administrative courts in gilgit baltistan as a result of adaptation and enforcement of following general special laws of pakistan: the national accountability bureau ordinance, (adaptation enforcement) order northern areas code of civil procedure order the environmental protection (adaptation and enforcement) order nab, the financial institutions (recovery of finances) (adaptation enforcement) order northern areas regulation of mines and oil fields and mineral de velopment order northern areas legal practitioners bar council (adaptation enforcement) order the northern areas anti terrorism order the anti narcotics enforcement force (adaptation enforcement) order thus this court is of the opinion that the gover nment of gilgit baltistan may withdraw the request if any made to security exchange commission of pakistan to extend its jurisdiction to gilgit baltistan and take up the matter with the gilgit baltistan council to establish the commission at the earliest. as per legislative list of gb council under third schedule of gilgit baltistan empowerment self governance) order the gb council is empowered to establish regulatory institutions in respect of corporate sec tor as stated below: gilgit baltistan (empowerment self governance) order third schedule council legislative list page banking, that is to say, the coordination with government of pakistan of the conduct of banking business. .. the law for insurance and the regulation of the conduct of insurance business stock exchange and future markets with object and business not confined to the areas comprising gilgit -baltistan. .. corporations, that to say, the interpretation regulation and winding up of trading corporations including banking, insurance, and financial corporations, but not including corporation owned or controlled by the provincial government of gilgit baltistan and carrying business, cooperative societies, and of corporations, wheth er trading or not with object not confined to the gilgit baltistan, but not including universities. keeping in view of above discussions, this court is constrained to direct gilgit baltistan council to establish its own security exchange commission in gilgit baltistan within shortest possible time to ensure regulating and proper monitoring of activities of local, national and foreign companies operating in gilgit balti stan. in case of non availability of technical human resource locally, the gb council may engage some experts from security exchange commission of pakistan on deputation till availability of locals expertise. it is an admitted fact that the jv company is controlled, managed and operated by the chinese si de through the petitioner being their nominee directors since its incorporation. thus if any mismanagement or complaint occurs that the affairs of company are being conducted or are likely to be conducted in an unlawful or fraudulent manner, or in a manner not provided for in its memorandum then the responsibility shifts to the petitioner exclusively being the most responsible mangers and responsible for conducting all affairs of the company. the purpose of section appears to keep the company going well while at the same time securing the interest of minor share holders from acts of oppression and mismanagement. proceedings under section are to be resorted to when it is complained that affairs of the company were being conducted in an unlawful or fraudulent manner or in a manner not provided for in memorandum articles of association. thus submission of instant application by the petitioner being the directors and managers of the compa ny before the learned chief court under section of companies ordinance is against the spirit of this page provision under which only members, creditors or the registrar are entitled to submit an application before the court in case of any complaint aga inst the management of the company responsible for the complained acts covered under this section. sub section of section of companies ordinance states as under: () if any member or members holding not less than twenty per cent of the issued share capital of a company, or a creditor or creditors having interest equivalent in amount to not less than twenty per cent of the paid up capital of the company, complains or complain, or the registrar is of the opinion, that the affairs of the com pany are being conducted, or are likely to be conducted, in an unlawful or fraudulent manner, or in a manner not provided for in its memorandum, or in a manner oppressive to the member or any of the members or the creditors or any of the creditors or are eing conducted in a manner prejudicial to the public interest, such member or members or, the creditor or creditors, as the case may be, the registrar may make an application to the court by an order under this section. () if, on any such petition, the court is of opinion -- (a) that the company's affairs are being conducted, or are likely to be conducted, as aforesaid; and (b) that to wind -up the company would unfairly prejudice the members or creditors; the court may, with a view to bri nging to an end the matters complained of, make such order as it thinks fit, whether for regulating the conduct of the company's affairs in future, or for the purchase of the shares of any members of the company by other members of the company or by the co mpany and, in the case of purchase by the company, for the reduction accordingly of the company's capital, or otherwise. section confers right only three persons, namely, i. member or members, holding not less than twenty percent of the issued share capital of a company, ii. creditor or creditors, having interest equivalent in amount to not less than twenty percent of the paid up capital of the company, and iii. the registrar, to make an application to the court under this ection the only persons mentioned above have the right to file application under section against the management, directors or bod in page respect of affairs conducted in a manner specified in the above provision. section does not provide any statutory right to any director, bod or the persons in management responsible for running affairs of the company, to file an application before the court who himself used to be responsible for whole management and administrative affairs of the company and having different definition, nature of status and functioning. section () of companies ordinance defines the member of a company as under: member means, in relation to a company having share capital, a subscriber to the memorandum of the company and every person to hom is allotted, or who becomes the holder of, any share, scrip or other security which gives him a voting right in the company and whose name is entered in the register of members, and in relation to a compan not having a share capital, any person who has agreed to become a member of the company and whose name is so entered section of companies ordinance defines registrar as under: registrar means a registrar, an additional registrar, a joint registrar, a deputy registrar, or an assistant registrar performing under this ordinance the duty of registration of companies. the section () of companies ordinance defines director as under: director includes any person oc cupying the position of a director by what ever name called further explained that directors are persons appointed or elected according to law, authorized to manage and direct the affairs of a corporation or company section () defines chief executive as under: chief executive in relation to a company means an individual, who subject to the control and directions of the directors, is entrusted with the whole, or substantially the whole, of the powers of management of the aff airs of the company, and includes a director or any other person occupying the position of chief executive, by whatever name called, and whether a contract of service or otherwise thus any member of bod, director or chief executive of a company does not fall under the scope of section at all. the petitioners, being directors and administrative heads responsible for all kinds of administrativ and financial affairs of the ompany, were not entitled to submit application under se ction against egistrar or akistani share holders partners in the jv ompany before the chief court gb page seeking remedy beyond the scope of the above referred provision is not tenable in the eyes of law thus liable to be rejected. these were the reasons for our shor appeal is hereby dismissed being meritless and not maintainable. consequently the judgment and order of learned chief court g.b. dated is upheld. parties to bear their own cost.