page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cpla no. dilbar khan son of sultan ali resident of eidgah tehsil district astore. petitioner. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan and others. respondent s. present:- date of hearing: .. order. the leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned .. gilgit baltistan service tribunal whereby the service appeal of the petitioner was dismissed being barred by time, hence, this leave to appeal. the earned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner was appointed as naib qasid in the office of the assistant commissioner astore on ... consequently, his service book was maintained wherein his date of birth was mentioned as which was similar to his nic and form b. per learned counsel, the said service book was misplaced by the officials of the assistant commissioner astore and they have prepar ed another service book wherein the date of birth of the petitioner was recorded as .. instead of the petitioner moved an application for correction of his date of birth page which was turned down by the respondent who have issued the retirement order of the petitioner on .. which is illegal and incor rect as the petitioner has to retire in the year as per his service book. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with his retirement order filed service appeal no. in the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal which upon hearing was dismissed declaring the same as time barred, hence, this leave to appeal. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned .. gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. admitt edly, as per service record of the petitioner at the time of joining service, his date of birth was entered as ... during the service, later on change of his national identity card, his date of birth was entered as ... whereafter he made a request for the change of the said date in service book. he contended that his original service book has been misplaced. the request of the petitioner was turned down and on completion of the years (as per his date of birth i.e. ..) he stood re tired and relieved from service vide .. the deputy commissioner astore. the petitioner being aggrieved filed service appeal in the learned service tribunal whereby he claimed that he was born on .. and would retired on .. or in instead of the appeal of the respondent is barred by time in terms of section () (a) of the service tribunal act. page secondly, no departmental appeal was moved to the competent authorities by the petitioner for redressal of his grievance within first two years of his service for correction of his age. further, the learned counsel for the petition could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the well reasoned impugned judgment the service tribunal gilgit -baltista n. in view of the above discussions, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. the leave is accordingly refused. the leave is refused in above terms. chief judge. judge.