page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at gilgit cr.p.l.a. no. -ud-din, judge. judge. dildar hussain son of muhammad kaseer. akbar khan son of khush khan. irfan hussain son of muhammad ali. zaheer abbas son of anwar shah, residents of sakwar, tehsil and district gilgit. petitioner accused the state. faqir shah son of khisro khan resident of sakwar district gilgit. respondent complainants offence under section ppc vide f.i.r. no. and arms ordinance of police station jutial gilgit. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan empowerment and (self governance order) against the judgment of learn ed present: advocate for the petitioners. advocate general for the respondents. advocate for the complainant. date of hearing: --. page order raja jalal -ud-din, -baltistan dated whereby the bail granted to the petitio ners by the vacation the petitioner are of the view that the recalling of the bail by the chief court gilgit -baltistan is not based on sound reasoning as the petitioner had not misused the concession of bail ranted by the vacation secondly that the petitioner had a good case for the grant of bail on merit based on the ground of consistency with the six accused who had been nominated in the f.i.r and latter on released under section cr.p.c and both the set of accused had been attributed a similar role according to the f.i.r. that no weapon of offence had been recovered from dildar hussain petitioner no.. hence the concession of bail has wrongly been denied to him. the prosecution on the other hand assisted by advocate argues that the concession of bail granted to the petitioner by the vacation all the cordial formalities regarding the prompt f.i.r alongwith the statements of the eye witnesses and the recoveries from the individuals accused have been conducted in accordance with the statements of the pw s. the motive has also been clearly established in the f.i.r. the chief court gilgit -baltistan vide its finding dated has rightly recalled the bail granted to the petitioners. page we have minutely gone through the arguments of the counsel for the petitioner and the respondents. the f.i.r has been lodged well within time and the factual manner of the cause and the background of the matter and the incident has been lodged in detail. the dispute between the parties was a result of water rights. oth the parties were claiming the right to water their ields. in this connection the matter was being resolved in the house of complainants but the issue could not be settled. the petitioner being present in the vicinity of the house of the complainants opened fire resulting in the death of one mst. batool a nd fire shot injuries sustained by sulaiman, ali abbas and basheer. the lalkara for the opening of the fire shots was is attributed to dildar hussain muhammad kaseer, hereby indiscriminate fire shots were opened. the injured have clearly named the petitioner for opening of the fire shots who were identified in the light of the electric bulb. the three petitioner namely akbar, irfan and za heer are directly implicated for opening the fire shots whereas dildar hussain petitioner has been attributed he role for the instigating the matter through his larkar we feel that this court will not discuss the points raised by both the parties i their arguments which may lat er on hamper and prejudice the mind of the trial court at the stage of decision of the case. we leave it to the trial court to come to an independent conclusion but at this bail stage we have made a tentative assessment of the material on record and we feel that there is a prima facie case against the accused and the concession of bail annot be extended in their favour. hence the request is declined. page the case itself has been charged sheeted and fixed for adducing of evidence. the trial court may speed -up the matter and conclude the trial at the earliest. it is also seen that when bail applications are turned down from the appellate court, the complainants try to drag the matter and prolong the trial. the trial court should keep in mind this issue also and conclude the trial in appropriate time. if the complainants unnecessarily prolong the case by not producing the private witnesses than the accused petitioner are at liberty to move afresh for the concession on bail on the new ground as ordered. announced --.