page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. ehsan ali others petitioners. government of pakistan others respondents. present: sharif ahmed advocate and -on-record for the petitioners. the deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit for federal government. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for provincial government. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed being not main tainable, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court contending that the acquired land in question was khalisa sarkar. the petitioner in collusion and connivance with the revenue official transferred the land in khasra numbers page and situated at jutial gilgit in their name and got illegally the compensation thereto. the provincial government reserves its legal rights to get refund the said amount from the petitioners. the deputy commissioner passed an illegal order of compensation on a letter bearing no. dk glt dated .. amounting to rs. (forty lac ninety five thousand and thirty five rupees only). per petitioners, the respondent no. to on one or other pretext did not pay the said amount of compensation despite their persistent demand. the petitioner being disappointed approached the office of the federal ombudsman at islamabad. the office of the ombudsman directed the respondent for payment of the awarded amount which was paid after delay of years without including compound interest as provided under section of the land acquisition act, the petitioner being aggrieved filed writ petition which upon hearing was dismissed being not maintainable. the learned counsel for the petitioner submit that the petitioner are the exclusive owners of the land measuring kanal and marla, situated at mouza jutial, reportedly within the commercial area of jutial, gilgit. the said land was acquired by the respondent in the year out of which, the land measuring kanal and marla belong to the petitioners. the compensation of the aforesaid acquired land was prepared on ... the award was calculated amounting to rs. (forty lac ninety five thousand and thirty five rupees only) and the papers page with regard to the acquisition of the aforesaid land were prepared but the petitioner agitated that they were also entitled to receive compound interest which was not paid to the petitioner despite their best efforts as the petitioner were entitled unde section of the land acquisition act, per learned counsel, the petitioner being aggrieved made an application before the land acquisition collector, gilgit for the payment of compound interest. the said application was dismissed being time arred. the petitioner were left with no other alternate except to file writ petition before the learned chief court which upon hearing was also dismissed vide impugned ... he prays that the impugned judgment may graciously be set a side and the compound interest may graciously be ordered to be paid to the petitioner as prayed for. on the other hand, the lea rned advocate general gilgit baltistan the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit appearing on be half of the official respondent submit that the acquired land was a khalisa sarkar. the petitioner in collusion and connivance with revenue officials and the then deputy commissioner obtained compensation illegally on an application as no case under the land acquisition act was ever filed by them. in case this matter is taken up as it is as a gossiple truth, they support the imp ugned judgment. they reiterate that the alleged letter bearing no. dk glt dated .. was not an award rather it wa a note from the office of the deputy page commissioner gilgit. per learned counsels, no formal award was ever prepared in the light of proceedings under the arbitration act. the compound interest on the received amount was an illegal compensation which cannot be claimed by the petitioners. the compensation amount without an award was illegal in the eyes of law which was taken from government treasury and the same is refundable from the petitioners. the order of federal ombudsman, if any, is not a judicial orde r, hence, not maintainable in law. they submit that the learned chief court has rightly dismissed the writ petition of the petitioner being not maintainable. they pray that this petition be dismissed and the petitioner be directed to refund the amount compensation illegally taken from the government exchequer. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and the gone through the impugned judgment the learned chief court. admitte dly, no award was any competent authority court of law. the petitioner have been illegally paid compensation in violation of the provisions of the land acquisition act, on the basis of a letter bearing no. dk glt dated ... the order the learned federal ombudsman was not a judicial order and the compensation was paid to the petitioner is not sustainable which has been obtained through fraud and mi srepresentation on a letter issued by the then page deputy commissioner. both the orders the then deputy commissioner and the federal ombudsman are not tenable in law. in view of the above discussions, we dismiss this appeal. consequently, the im pugned .. the learned chief court is affirmed. the off icial respondent may approach to the competent forum court of law for the refund of the said amount with interest from the petitioners, if they so advised. the appe al is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.