page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief smc.no. original jurisdiction. (appointment of national accountability court ). ... dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this court took suo moto notice on .. at skardu on the news published on .. in daily gilgit -baltistan regarding appointment of the -baltistan. consequently on .. report was sought from the learned chief secretary, gilgit -baltistan and learned chairman, national accountability bureau islamabad. the learned secretary law prosecution gilgit -baltistan submitt ed its report dated .. which is reproduced as under:- government of gilgit -baltistan office of the secretary law prosecution gilgit -baltistan secretariat ps-secy law () -viii dated 27th november, the registrar, supreme appellate court, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. subject: appointment of national accountability bureau i am directed to refer to senior assistant registrar supreme appellate court gb letter no.sac -hrw.no. dated 23rd november, on the subject and to submit detail report on the issue as under: a. according to section (g) of the nab ordinance court means an accountability court which shall consist of a copy of the relevant section is attached as annexure -a. page b. similarly as per sectio (f) of the said ordinance the chairman national accountability court may declare and notify any place as a police station or a sub-jail at his discretion. copy of relevant section is attached as annexure -b. c. at present, there are only four cases subjudi ce before the national accountability court due to which the government of gilgit -baltistan vide letter dated had requested to gilgit -baltistan council for assignment of additional charge of the post of accordingly the chairman gilgit -baltistan council prime minister of pakistan had been pleased to approve the additional charge of the post of national accountability court to -() gb council dated 21st august, copy of the notification is attached as annexure -c. d. the -d. e. the gilgit -baltistan chief court vide letter dated 4th september, has stopped the baltistan council to re -visit the notification regarding assignment of additional charge of the post of -baltistan and the issue is still under consideration between the gilgit -baltistan council and gilgit -baltistan chief court. copy of letter is at annexure -e. the detail reply of gb council addressed to registrar gilgit -baltistan chief court is attached as annexure -f. the above mentioned position clarifies that the gb government has no role regarding the appointment of the th matter was discussed with secretary gb council on phone who informed that very soon a penal of judges will be sought from gb chief court for appointment of the moreover the government of gilgit -baltistan has alrea dy provided office building for the report is submitted as desired, please. -sd rahim gul secretary law prosecution gilgit -baltistan, gilgit ph no. according to the aforementioned report the learned chief .. has desired to appoint a -baltistan in accordance with the provisions of national accountability ordinance meanwhile the learned chief court has advised to ijaz ali sial, gilgit -baltistan not to take page cognizance of the cases pertaining to national accoun tability court gilgit -baltistan consequent thereto, i have examined the notification no. () gbc -law dated .. egarding appointment of baltistan which is reproduced as under: gilgit -baltistan council secretariat, block 2nd floor benevolent fund building zero point islaamabad islamabad, the 19th june notification no. () gbc -law. the chairman, gilgit -baltistan council has been pleased to appoint mehr ijaz ali sial (retired) district session gilgit -baltistan on contract basis, for a period of three years, with the salary allowance as admissible to a gilgit baltist an with immediate effect and until further orders. -sd- (ehsan ul haq) deputy secretary (gbc) tele: the manager, printing corporation of pakistan press, university road, karachi. copy forwarded to: the secretary to the prime minister chairman, gilgit -baltistan council islamabad. the secretary to the governor, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. the secretary to the chief minister, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. the registrar, supreme appellate court, gilgit -baltis tan, gilgit. the registrar, chief court, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. the secretary, home department, gilgit -baltistan gilgit. the secretary, services general administration department gb gilgit. the secretary, law prosecution department gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. the secretary, finance department gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. the accountants general, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. pso to minister in charge gilgit -baltistan council secretariat, islamabad. ps to secretary in -charge gilgit -baltistan council islamabad. ps to chief secretary, government of gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. pio, pid, islamabad. page mehr. ijaz ali sial (retired) district sessions judge, nasir raza shah, banking court bahawalpur, gulberg road, model town a block, bahawalpur. office copy. -sd- (sqn. ldr. s. shakil raza) section officer (council) tele: the gilgit -baltistan council also submitted their comment before the learned chief court which are also reproduced as under: f.no.c -() -gbc gilgit -baltistan council secretariat, 2nd floor, benevolent fund building, zero point, islamabad islamabad, the 23rd september, to the registrar chief court, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. subject: notification regarding assigning additional charge of national accountability court gilgit -baltistan to -baltistan please refer to the chief court, gilgit -baltistan letter no.cc -e-() dated 4th september, on the subject. this is to intimate that the observations of the however, at present only additional charge has been conferred to gilgit -baltistan on the request of law prosecution department gilgit -baltistan till the regular appointment. it will not be out of place to mentio here that such an arrangement was made in the past also and no such observations were made by the chief court gilgit -baltistan, infact the worthy chief vide orders dated -- wherein the petitioner had challenged the additional charge entrusted to the then the worthy chief judge, chief court gilgit -baltistan may kindly be apprised of the above said position and informed that all codal formalities shall be observed at the time of regular appointment, he may be further requested to allow mehar ijaz ali sial -baltistan on additional charge basis till the ime of regular appointment. -sd (muhammad ajmal gondal) joint secretary ph: page i have gone through all the aforementioned notifications, reply of gilgit -baltistan council and impugned administrative ... the learned chief court gilgit baltistan. admittedly, he appointment of -baltistan was made by the gilgit baltistan council with the consultation and co nsent of the learned chief judge, chief court, gilgit -baltistan. the impugned administrative .. the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan appears contradictory to its own court judgment in writ petition no. dated .. regarding the additional charge given to malik safdar, the then banking customs gilgit -baltistan. in view of the above discussion, i my considered view since -baltistan and he was given additional charge of baltistan, no consultation and consent was required afresh from the learned chief judge, chief court, gilgit -baltistan by the gilgit baltistan council. in view of the above discussion, the impugned administrative order passed on .. by the learned chief judge, chief court, gilgit -baltistan is set aside. the order vide notification no. -() gb council dated .. issued page by gilgit -baltistan council regarding additional charge as -baltistan given to ijaz ali sial is hereby restored. consequently, -baltistan is directed to continue to hold additional charge as -baltistan in order to hear decide cases in accordance with law, till the appointment of a regular a) of the national accountability ordinance the copies of this order be sent to all concerned departments for implementation of this order. the smc no. is disposed off in above terms. chief judge. page