page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. civil misc. no. in cpla. no. fakhar alam others petitioners. provincial government others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that in the year the respondent no. i.e. secretary excise taxation department gilgit -baltistan has engaged the petitioner under the contingency head to run the business of newly created department of excise taxation gilgit -baltistan. the petitioner performed their du ties under the supervision of the relevant contingency head in various districts of gilgit -baltistan. he also submits that in the year the said respondent adjusted appointed the petitioner by regularizing their contingent services and obtained sancti on thereto from the respondent no. i.e. secretary finance gilgit -baltistan. he submits that after issuing the permanent and regular orders, the concerned xcise taxation officers (e.t.os) refused to accept their joining in service. he further submits that the competent authority constituted a committee comprising of three () members from the chief page minister inspection team headed by its director general who investigated the matter and prepared fact finding report. despite acknowle dging the services rendered by the petitioners, the respondent no. issued termination orders of petitioner on ... the petitioner being aggrieved filed internal departmental appeal to respondent no. i.e. chief secretary gilgit -baltistan but still no action or decision has been taken. per learned counsel the petitioner being aggrieved filed writ petition no. before the learned chief court which upon hearing was dismissed by directing the petitioner to seek remedy from any proper foru m. he finally contends that the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court office order bearing no. secy (r) estt () dated .. are illegal, unwarranted and against the law, therefore, the same are required to be set aside. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court as well as the office order bearing no. secy (r) estt () dated ... the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality infirmity in the said impugned judgments orders. page in our considered view, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded. we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. the leave is refused accordingly. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge.