page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan cr.p.l.a. no. faqir muhammad, sub inspector police, posted at police station astore petitioner the state through police station astore chief court gilgit -baltistan gilgit respondent leave to appeal under article () of gilgit -baltistan (amendment and self governance) order read with order supreme appellae court gilgit baltis tan against the -- he chief -baltistan in cr.misc. no. whereby an fir by the police and enquiry by the department against the petitioner has been ordered to be lodged and conducte for recording of incorrect statements in criminal case no. police station astore. for setting aside the impugned order holding the same against the law, facts, without jurisdiction and void and for quashment of fir no. section cr.p. c., police station astore for the large interest of justice, law and equity. present: page date of hearing --. r. syed jaffar shah -- single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan in criminal misc. no. whereby the learned the brief facts leading to the present petition are that one muhammad khan complainant, lodge the report with police station astore alleging therein that on -- he along with muhammad nazim, raj mulook, kasim iqbal, adnan and others was sitting near the house of one abdul and were busy in gossip, in the meanwhile persons including one abdul bari suddenly appeared thereon, holding sticks and stones in their hands, they suddenly pelted stones on complainant party and also attack ed them with sticks and in the meantime one of the accused party namely abdul bari muhammad khan, fired with a pistol which hit one of complainant party namely ib adat shah muhammad khan, on his forehead resultantly he fell down injured and was taken to hospital for treatment. page on the information give by the complainant the s.h.o. police station astore registered fir no. under section ppc and the re after started investigation of the case. the main accused namely abdul bari approached the learned chief court for his pre-arrest bail having declined the same by the additional district and sessions which came to be raja jala l-ud-din chief -baltistan. the learned single however vide order da ted -- declined to confirm the interim bail and also directed arrest of the said accused abdul bari, the learned .o. of the case for recording the statement of one firdous who in his statement un der section cr.p.c. charged one abdul muheed to have fired on the injured ibadat shah, the learned single the learned -arrest bail gave the following directions in the impugned order. page the i.o. faqir muhammad should be charge for perjury that the matter has been conducted with malafide intention as such it is directed that an fir be recorded against him under section ppc. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and advocate general for the state respondent at length and on their valuable assistance have perused the relevant record as well as relevant provisions of law and tentatively assessed the statement of p.w firdous, in his statement under section cr.p.c. recorded by the petitioner the said witness no-doubt, implicates one abdul muheed for causing fire arm injury to ibadat shah but in his subsequent statement recorded before the successor of the petitioner he does not nominate any person out of the accused party for opening fire at the injured ibadat shah, however he admits to have made a statement before the petitioner implicating one abdul muheet. from the above fact it transpires that the p.w. firdous appears to be a double minded man and whatever he stated in his statement under section cr.p.c. the petitioner reduced the same into writing so this act of petitioner does not constitute an offence of perjury withi the mischief of section ppc as observed by the learned single judge. in order to reach a proper conclusion it would be necessary to go through the relevant provision of law on the subject under section ppc defines perjury or making false evid ence which reads as under: page section giving false evidence. whoever being legally bound by an oath or by an express provision of law to state truth, or being bound by law to make a declaration upon any subject, makes any statement which is false, and which he either knows or believes to be false or does not believe to be true is said to give false evidence. explanation a statement is within the meaning of this section, whether it is made verbally or otherwise. explanation a false statement as to the belief of the person attesting is within the meaning of this section, and a person may be guilty of giving false evidence by stating that he believes a thing which he does not believe, as well as by stating that he knows a thing which he does not now. section ppc. punishment for false evidence. whoever intentionally gives false evidence in any stage of a judicial proceeding, or fabricates false evidence for the purpose of being used in any stage of a judicial proceeding, shall be punished wit imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine. and whoever intentionally gives or fabricates false evidence in any other case, shall be punished with imprisonment of either page description for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine. explanation a trial before a court martial is a judicial proceeding. explanation an investigation directed by law preliminary to a proceeding before a court of justi ce, is a stage of a judicial proceeding, though that investigation may not take place before a court of justice. the perjury has been defined in black laws dictionary eighth edition as under: that an act or an instance of a person deliberately making material false or misleading statement while under oath punishment for making perjury has been provided under section ppc which has already been reproduced herein above. the careful examination of the above section would show that any act ion under section ppc can only be taken against any person after conclusion of trial, it means that any action take during trial or at investigation stage would be violative of law. in the case in hand neither the petitioner has given any false statem ent on oath before any court of law nor he has resiled from page any previous statement made by him. the petitioner as an investigation officer has only recorded a statement of witness under section cr.p.c. and mere recording of a statement given by a wit ness does not in any way constitute an offence punishable under section ppc nor it is scheme of law to launch a prosecution of perjury against any person before conclusion of trial from perusal of impugned order it reveals that in the present case even trial has not commenced and the case is still at investigation stage. the learned unfortunately it has not been done in the present case and the learned determined the uilt of the petitioner. for the foregoing reasons we convert this petition into appeal, the impugned -- is set aside to the extent of directions regarding registration of a case under section ppc against petitioner. consequently quash the fir bearing no. registered with police station astore on the basis of said order direction. petition converted into appeal and allowed.