page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan at skardu registry. chief judge. judge. civil appeal. no in cpla. no. farman ali son of ghulam muhammad others petitioners. muhammad yaseen son of ghulam mehdi mouza kharko mandik tehsil daghoni district ghanche. respondent. present:- ali khan advocate- on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing:- ... date of detail judgment:- .. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court whereby the said civil revision filed by the petitioner was dismissed by maintaining the concurrent findings of the learned courts below, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vi de .. granted leave to appeal and the case was finally heard on ... briefly facts of the case are that the respondent plaintiff filed a civil suit no. against the petitioner defendant for page seeking declaration and possession regarding his share of maternal properties measuring kanal under khiwat no. alongwith trees and house situated at mouza kharko district ghanche including kanal marlas cultivated land and kanal marlas uncultivated land under khewat no.. according to the averment the petitioner defendant contested the suit with the plea that mst. bibi mother of the respondent plaintiff had already gifted out her shari share in favour of the deceased ghulam muhammad father of the petitioner no. to vide gift deed dated .. under mutation no. as per the plaint, the mot her of the plaintiff namely mst. bibi was sister of ghulam muhammad son of husain, who was the father of defendant no. to both mst. bibi and ghulam muhammad expired in the year and respectively. in the year mst. fatima daughter of hussain received her shari share from the defendants. whereafter the plaintiff respondent also demanded for the maternal shari share from the petitioner defendants. subsequently they denied to give them their due share. resultantly the respondent constrained to file civil suit no. for declaration, possession and cancellation of the gift deed dated ... the learned trial court after hearing both the parties and examining the evidence on record decreed the suit in favour of the respondent plaintiff vide judgment decree dated ... the petitioner feeling aggrieved filed civil first appeal no. before the learned district ... the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed civil revision no. before the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court which upon hearing was dismissed vide impugned .., hence this leave to appeal. we after hearing the respective parties dismissed the appeal by maintaining the concurrent findings of the learned courts below vide our short ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner and the respondent are the lineal descendents of one hussain son of muhammad. he also submits that the doctrine of estoppel is involved in this case as a gift deed was affected in the year and the plaintiff respondent filed the suit after a delay of approximately years. he further submits that the learned courts below have failed to apply their judicial minds in appreciating the evidence so produced by the petitioner defendant and wrongly decreed the suit in favour of the respondent which according to the learned counsel for the petitioner are not sustainable. he prays that the impugned .. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court as well as the concurrent findings of the learned courts below may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court. he contends that the same has been passed in accordance page with law and facts of the case, hence, the said impugned order may graciously be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court as well as the concurrent findings of the courts below. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned order the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court. in our considered view no interference is warranted into it. in view of the above discussions, we dismissed this appeal vide short ... consequent thereto, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court as well as .. in civil first appeal no. the learned district sessions .. in civil suit no. the learned civil these were the reasons of our short ... the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?