page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla.no. fazal shah son of muhammad shah. wali muhammad son of sher ali harcho district astore. petitioner s. molvi ramazan. rasool khan. johar son of nawaz. ahmed ali son of ghulam jan. muhammad ali son naqeebullah. tahir son of ramazan harcho district astore. abdul majeed son of abdul sttar dashkan district astore. respondents. leave to appeal under article gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, alongwith supreme appellate court rules against impugned .. learned division bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan in civil first appeal no. whereby the division bench of chief court ha accepted appeal no consequently set aside decree in favor of petitioner plaintiff dated .. holding that suit of plaintiff as un founded. present: tahir son of ramazan present in perso n. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition has been directed against the impugned .. in page cfa no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. the civil first appeal filed by the respondent was allowed and the judgment decree dated .. the learned civil the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment of he learned chief court filed this leave to appeal. the briefly facts of the petition are that the petitioner no. filed civil suit no. for recovery of rs. (rupees three lac only) in the learned court of civil who upon hearing decreed the said suit in fa vor of the petitioner plaintiff vide .. in civil suit no. the respondent being aggrieved called in question the said impugned judgment of the learned civil .. in cfa no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. the plaintiff petitioner contended that the respondent had purchased kanals of lands at village dawal at rawalpindi for the consideration of rs. ,, (rupees twelve lac only) and a sum of rs. has also been paid to one arshad mehmood as earnest money with the pledge to pay the entire remaining amount on ... the petitioner also contended in his suit that after receiving the entire amount the owner of the said land has to be transferred to the page petitioner after fulfilling all the legal formalities i.e. mutate the land in the name of the petitioner and deliver possession of the said property thereto. according to them an agreement dated .. was also executed between the present petitioner and the owner of the land through the respondent. this court issued notice to the respondent on ... the request of the learned counsel was declined in absence of the respondents. consequently, we want to decide he case on merit. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned judgment .. in cfa no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. he careful perusal of the record reveals that the transaction of the disputed land had been executed at rawalpindi, the alleged earnest money was also paid at rawalpindi to the owner of the land. the property in question is also situated at rawalpindi, hen ce, the question of territorial jurisdiction arises. the learned chief court has rightly held that the judgment the learned civil page the respondent has already suffered an irreparable loss because of uncalled for prolonged litigation initiated by the petitioner and the judgment the learned civil the administration of the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any infirmity illegality in the impugned well reasoned judgment the learned chief court. in view of the above discussions we have convert ed this petition into an appeal and the same was dismissed vide our short ... the petitioner is directed to pay cost of rs. (rupees fifty thousand only) to the respondent within a period of fifteen () days positively. consequen tly, the impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court is upheld being well reasoned and well founded whereas the judgment decree dated .. in civil suit no. the learned civil the respondent may claim damages against the petitioner in accordance with law. we are constrained to observe that the learned civil instead, he had travelled beyond his jurisdiction. because taking of cognizance by the learned civil the respondent were dragged page into uncalled for litigation for more than eleven () years who have suffered irreparable losses and injuries. the copy of this order be sent and placed before the hon'ble chief judge, gilgit -baltistan, chief court for his perusal and order, if his lordship deems it necessary or otherwise. these were the reasons of our said short ... the appeal is dismissed in above terms with cost. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?