page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. fazal dar others. petitioners. shaban others. respondents. present: the advocate general for respondent nos. to date of hearing: .. order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal petition has arisen out of the impugned orders dated .. and .. passed in cr. misc no. and writ petition no. by the learned chief court, whereby the said writ petition filed by the respondent was disposed off with the directions to the senior superintendent of police district diamer to look into the matter personally and depute a senior efficient and honest police officer not below the rank of dsp to investigate the case, hence, this criminal petition. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. page briefly, the facts of the case are that an fir no. was lodged at police station tangir on .. against roop mirza sons of surdil on the charge of murder of anar khan son of samandar khan. the deceased anar khan was absconder in a murder case no. he had undergone or self exiled, hence, the local police could not trace the said accused for investigation of the case. during the abs consion period of the said accused i.e. the said anar khan was murdered whose case could not proceed due to the absence of the witnesses. consequently, the prosecution filed report before the learned judicial magistrate at tangir for disposal of the case under section cr. pc which upon hearing was disposed off vide ... the rder of the learned judicial magistrate was not challenged before any competent court of jurisdiction, therefore, it attained finality. after eleven year of the disposal of the case the complainant filed a writ petition in the learned chief court which u pon hearing was allowed vide ... subsequently, the case was re -opened by the police authorities in compliance with the order of the learned chief court. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the order of the learned judicial mag istrate has got finality which as not been challenged by the complainant party which holds field. per learned counsel, once challan is submitted in the competent court of law and the same is disposed off, it cannot be re -opened after the page delay of considerable period, hence, the impugned order of the learned chief court is against the law and not tenable which may graciously be set aside. conversely, the learned advocate gener al supports the impugned order by the learned chief court. per learned advocate general, the second investigation is not barred if new facts come on surface. he prays that the impugned order may graciously be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned orders dated .. .. the learned chief court and .. learned judicial magistrate district diamer at chillas. admittedly, the order of acquittal the le arned judicial magistrate has attained finality. they cannot be prosecuted or tried again for the same offence. in our considered view, the impugned order is not sustainable being violative of article of the constitution of the islamic republic of paki stan in view of the above discussions, we convert this criminal petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the orders dated .. and .. in cr. misc no. arisen out of writ petition no. the learned chief court are set aside whereas the page .. learned judicial magistrate, district diamer at chillas is maintained. this criminal appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.