page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan, gilgit. chief judge. judge. civil appeal. no. in cpla. no. fida muhammad petitioner. forest department others respondents. present:- malik shafqat wali senior advocate and on-record for the petitioner. the advocate general on behalf of respondent s. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this civil leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court whereby the civil revision of the respondent was allowed and the case was remanded back to the learned trial court for denovo trial by setting aside the impugned .. of the learned additional district .. the learned trial court chilas district diamer. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. page briefly facts of the case are that the plaintiff respondent filed civil suit no. and against the petitioner for declaration to the effect that the suit land is part of forest zone and the mutation and various allotments in favour of the petitioner no. are illegal and unlawful. the learned trial court upon hearing dismissed the said suit declaring it meritless not maintainable and time barred vide ... on appeal the learned additional district the respondent plaintiff preferred civil revision no. before the learned chief co urt which upon hearing was allowed by setting aside the judgments orders of the learned courts below, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsels for the petitioner submit that the suit of the respondent was miserably time barred, not maintainable and meritless which was rightly dismissed by the learned trial court vide .. and the same was upheld by the learned first appellate court vide ... they also submit that the allotment order was made on .. in favour of the petitioner defendant after proper proceeding while the suit was filed by the respondent in the year after lapse of years. they also submit that the respondent including provincial government of northern areas have waived their rights by not contesting the suit and they did not filed any page appeal or revision petition during the whole litigation from the learned trial court up to the learned chief court. they further submit that the learned chief court gilgit-baltistan has wrongly transposed the chief secretary, government of gilgit-baltistan as plaintiff during the hearing of the revision petition as the chief secretary has already waived his right of suing as plaintiff through his allotment dated .. by upholding the previous allotment .. in favour of the petitioner defendant. they finally submit that the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court is not tenable and liable to be set aside being passed contrary to the la and facts of the case. on the other hand, the learned advocate general appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court. they contend that the learned additional district he also submits that the learned chief court has rightly set aside the order of the learned additional district court astore through its impugned judgment which is well reasoned and well founded. he prays that the same may graciously be upheld. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone the page impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court. the learned chief court has rightly held that a government department can not sue any person without arraying the provincial government of gilgit- baltistan as plaintiff. the learned trial court as well as the learned first appellate court have failed to take notice of this fact. furthermore, the learned counsels for the petitioner could not point out any illegality infirmity in the impugned judgment, therefore, no interference is warranted into it. in view of the above discussions, we converted this petition into an appeal and the same was dismissed vide our short ... consequently, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court was maintained. these were the reasons of our said short order. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?