page in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan gilgit. cpla no. chief judge. judge. fida hussain son of dinar baig shopkeeper fine paints hardwear store raja bazar gilgit. haji sher ali shah son of lal badshah shopkeeper new fine cloths house. haji mirza muhammad shopkeeper bata mubarak shoes copmany. (petitioners) raja tahir abbas. raja manzoor abbas raja zaheer abbas sons of raja wazir abbas residents of amphary tehsil and district gilgit. (respondents defendants) leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerments self governance) order, against the judgment .. single bench chief court in csa no. present: mir ikhlaq hussain, advocate or the petitioner. advocate for the respondents. a or. date of hearing: .. judgment this le ave to appeal has been preferred against the .. the learned single -baltistan whereby, the the .. the learned additional district judge, gilgit was upheld. the facts in brief as gleaned out from the record are that the respondent petitioner instituted a rent petition under section of west pakistan rent restriction ordinance, on 6th april against the petitioner respondent in the court of rent controller civil it was averred in the application to the effect that the property in question i.e. shops nos. and located in raja bazar gilgit city which was previously under the ownership of jafar khan the predecessor of the respondent herein. after the sad demise of jafar khan prop erty in question fell in the ownership of respondent through mutation number sanctioned on -- as mentioned in the application. on account of the change of ownership, notice under the law, were given to the respondent and they where also req uired to page pay rent at the prevailing market value, whereas, the respondent adopted dilly -dally attitude thus necessitating the ejectment of the petitioner from property subject matter of the proceedings. the petitioner respondent however controverte the averments made in the ejectment application by raising certain legal objections and they also refuted the claim of respondent applicants on the ground that they could not ejected from the property as jaffer khan the predecessor in interest of the respondent had entered into an agreement with them on .. to the effect that the petitioner cannot be ejected as the disputed shops as per agreement were reconstructed by the petitioner herein and the predecessor of the respondent shall keep on receiving the rent of these shops per month. it was suggested that in view of agreement entered into by the predecessor of respondent applications, they had got no legal and ethical ground to bring a lis against the petitioner and the respondent herein a re only entitle to receive the rent at the rate of rs. per shop on monthly basis. page the learned rent controller during the course of proceedings vide .. determined the fair rent and directed the petitioner to deposit the same bef ore 15th of each month. the petitioners, however, could not comply with the orders the learned rent controller on -- and rendered themselves as willful defaulters. the learned rent controller vide -- accepted the eject ment petition and struck off the defence of the petitioner herein and the respondent applicants were orders to be put into possession. the petitioner herein feeling aggrieved called in question the -- through civil first appeal be fore the learned district after hearing the parties, the learned district -- modified the order of the learned rent controller and directed the petitioner respondent to fix rent in accordance with prevalent market value. it was directed further that if the present petitioner failed to comply with the orders then respondent would be at liberty to make endeavor for ejectment. the petitioner then filed civil second page appeal before the chief court gilgit -baltistan however, the same was dismissed vide -- which is under impeachment in the instant civil leave to appeal. it is been argued by the learned counsel of the petitioners, inter alia, that judgment in question is of arbitrary in nature as the same was passed in oblivion of law of the land as well as facts on the record. the chief court as well as lower courts failed to keep in mind the crucial fact in original agreement, it was to be noted that it was agreed upon in the year between the landlord and the tenant that in case of reconstruction of the shops in dispute they would be only liable to pay monthly rent of rs. only per month. it is argued strenuously that no default, however, was made by the petitio ners and the findings of the courts below on this aspect are nothing but reflection of hasty attitude. the petitioner argued further that the judgments of the lower courts are merely based on conjectures and as such least permissible at law. conversely, the counsel for the respondent has opposed the application with full force contending page that the petitioner have failed to comply with the orders the learned trail court as well as the learned appellate court and in this view of the matter they rendered themselves defaulters and no other decision can be taken except the dismissal of the petition. the petitioner could not raise any legal point in this petition and this court is not a fact finding court which exercise has already been undertaken by the learned courts below and the petition in hand merits dismissal. we have heard the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the respective parties and have also examined the record minutely with their able assistance. at the very out set, it ay be clarified that in terms of section () of west pakistan rent restriction ordinance, the rent controller is required to determine the fair rent on the first date of hearing, even before framing the issues. section () of the said ordinance i reproduced below for ready reference: in proceeding under this section on the first date of hearing or as son as possible after that date and before issues are framed, the controller shall direct the tenant to deposit all the rent due page from him and als to deposit regularly till the final decision of the case, before the fifteenth day of each month, the monthly rent due from him. if there is any dispute about the amount of rent due or the rate of rent, the controller shall determine such amount approx imately and direct that the same be deposited by the tenant before a date to be fixed for the purpose. if the tenant makes default in the compliance of such an order, then if he is the petitioner, his application shall be dismissed summarily and if he is he respondent, his defence shall be struck off and the landlord put into possession of the property without taking any further proceeding in the case the position which emerges from the plain reading of the said section is that the rent controller is not left with any alternative except to determine fair rent as per dictates of law and this aspect cannot be left with the parties to decide with regard to the fixation of fair rent of the rented property. the scrutiny of the record is indicative of the fact that the learned rent controller vide -- directed the petitioner to deposit monthly rent on or before 15th of each succeeding month. the petitioners, however, failed to comply with the direction the learned rent control ler. the petitioners, however, voiced their grievance to the effect that they have been depositing the rent as per direction of the court with the reader of the court but despite of depositing the rent, they never issued the receipts of the deposits of page the rent fixed by the court. at this stage of proceedings of the court, the learned rent controller examined the reader and other member of the staff as court witnesses and thereafter, gave a definite conclusion to the effect that the petitioner had defaulte by non depositing of the rent. in this scenario of the matter there remains no room for doubt towards default. it has consistently been observed by the reliance in this regard is placed on pld sc muhammad shraf qamar sultana which reads as under for ready reference: there is no dispute about the fact that entire property including the rented premises belong ed to the father of the respondent and on his death, the same devolved upon his legal heirs. above property was partitioned among the legal heirs and the shop in question fell to the share of the respondent. admittedly, the petitioner tenant failed to comp ly with the -- of the rent controller. he neither paid the arrears after deducting the same from the rent already deposited nor continued to deposit monthly rent already deposited nor continued to deposit monthly rent fixed at rs. per month from january, onwards till filling of the instant rent application, thus, became a willful defaulter. irrespective of this, he had also sublets the shop on rent to ashoar shah which was another factor resulting in his eviction from the said shops. the photo copy of the receipt of rs. said to have been deposited by the petitioner was in fact produced in another rent application titled muhammad ashraf v. shaheen page pervaiz which deposits too was also made after the delay of more than one mon th the examination of the record of the case in hand transpires that the petitioner in this case had also become willful defaulter and on accounts of this, petitioner were directed to vacate the premises. another arrow of the arsenal of the petiti oner is that the predecessors of respondent had given them assurance and main agreement contained specific provision that in case of reconstruction of the shops, they will never be called to pay rent at the markets value and that they will ever liable to be ejected. there is a celebrated principle of law that any agreement which is violative of public policy is never specifically enforceable and the clause in agreement to this extend is always voidable. there is no denying to the fact that after the sad demise of original landlord, the respondent entered into suit property and was transferred in their name as being the legal hairs of the legacy of the predecessor owner of the demised property, the respondent never issue notices, suffice is to say that the landlord is always at liberty to excuse agreement with regard to the property to which they had become page the owner and co clog under the law of the land can be imposed. the learned additional district but the petitioner instead of setting the dispute amicably, despite of the facts that the courts below did not adopt any harsh a ttitude. the astonishing feature of the petitioner want to feel obliged to pay the same rent after the expiry of almost years time, when the whole scenario is absolutely changed. in this view of the matter, the finding of the courts below are neithe perverse nor arbitrary and as such never warrant any interference and no exception is required, in the circumstances of the case, to be taken at all. in view of what has been discussed above, the case never calls for exercise of jurisdiction by this court. the petition is misconceived and the dame is dismissed. leave to appeal is refused. chief