page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cpla no. ghulam nabi petitioner. provincial government others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil petition has arisen of the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal where by the service appeal no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed, hence, this pe tition for leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner was appointed as store supervisor bps through fpsc. the predecessor of the petitioner namely retired from service on .. and due to his retirement, the post of admin officer has fallen vacant. consequently, the petitioner moved an application for his promotion against the said post as a matter of right. per learned counsel, the page department processed the case of the petitioner but the dpc could not be held due to the malafide intention of the respondents. consequently, the petitioner has been promoted as admin officer on .. instead of ... he submits that due to the delay in promotion of the petiti oner, he suffered financial loss for a period of year and months. he submits that the petitioner filed service appeal no. in the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal which upon hearing was ismissed vide the impugned .. he submits that the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal fell in error while passing the impugned judgment, hence, the same is not sustainable. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned .. the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal. admittedly, the summary of the petitioner promotion was moved on .. which was approved after completing all codal formalities and accordingly promoted on ... the petitioner had earlier also filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court praying therein that he was neglected for promotion by the respondent which upon hearing was dismissed on ... the promotion is not a vested right of the petitioner as claimed by him. there is no provision in the service rules to give the promotion retrospective ly rather it can be given with prospective effect as provided under section () of the page gilgit -baltistan civi servants act, for ready reference the said provision of law is reproduced as under: quote promotion shall be granted with immediate effect and be actualized from the date of assumption of charge of higher post and shall in no case be granted w.e.f the date of availability of the post reserved for promotion. unquote further, the petitioner did not filed departmental appeal before filing service appeal in the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal which was mandatory in nature. in our considered view, the impugned judgment the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal is well reasoned as the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any infirmity or illegality in the impugned judgment. in view of the above dis cussions, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. the leave is accordingly refused. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?