page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. gohar hayat another petitioners. ali ahmed jan others respondents. present: johar ali khan advocate -on-record on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil petition has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed being meritless, hence, this petit ion for leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case was heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent no. filed civil suit no. in the court of learned civ il and one fazal deceased son of petitioner no. for possession of house allegedly occupied with collusion of respondent no. by ejecting their page tenants respondent no. the above suit as contested by respondent no. after full trial the learned trial court passed a decree vide judgment decree dated ... respondent no. and other person namely fazal challenged the above decree before the district filed a revision petition before the learned chief court section alongwith the above defendant jan alam which was dis missed as withdrawn vide .. passed in civil revision no. and in this was the judgment decree dated .. attained finality. the present respondent no. judgment debtors filed execution petition. the petitioner contest ed the same by filing objections before the executing court which was dismissed vide ... the above order of dismissal of objection was assailed before the learned chief court through revision petition which met the same fate. the pet itioners alongwith other judgment debtor jan alam thereafter filed a declaratory suit before the learned trial court challenging the above decree dated ... the above suit was rejected by the learned trial court under order rule cpc which was impugned through an appeal before the learned chief court which was also dismissed and as last resort the present petitioner have filed an application under section () challenging the validity of the judgment decree dated ... the same was di smissed in limini by the learned trial court vide page ... the same was further assailed through revision petition before the learned district judge. the learned first appellate court vide judgment order dismissed the revision petition hold ing the same devoid of any merit which was subsequently upheld by the learned chief court. the learned counsel for the petitioner contends that the judgment decree dated .. in civil suit no. was obtained by the respondent through fraud, misrepresentation and want of jurisdiction without impleading the petitioner as necessary party. he also submits that the grandfather of the petitioner and judgment debtor i.e. late mirza baig and the grandfather of the decree holders respondent no. were real brothers inter se. mirza baig died leaving behind three () sons i.e. maj. nadir aman, muhammad baig and shamsher (minors) and two () daughters namely mst. shukrat and nijat. nadir aman died leaving behind three () sons namely me hboob alam, jan alam and ghulam murtaza similarly jan alam died leaving behind two () sons i.e. zahid karim and shahid karim. likewise, muhammad baig died leaving behind two () sons and one () daughter namely the petitioner and judgment debtor respon dent no. he further submits that shamsher died leaving behind sons manzoor karim, ghazi karim, sartaj karim and sarfraz karim. later on, ghazi karim also died leaving behind one son junaid. mst. shukrat died leaving behind son niamat khan whereas mst. nijat died leaving behind son namely ali madad who passed away leaving page behind daughter salima. similarly, qalamo, the grandfather of the decree holders respondent no. and died leaving behind sons namely muhammad shafa, akbar and muham mad (minors). muhammad shafa died leaving behind the decree holder and daughter mst. shamia whereas akbar died issueless while muhammad issa died leaving behind sons and daughter i.e. danish, suleiman and nazia. per learned counsel, the petitioner and the respondent have common landed property at danyore gilgit and at ali abad hunza. after the deaths of both the grandfathers of the respective parties, the partition of the common property took place amongst the eldest sons of mirza baig and muhamm ad shafa. according to the said partition, the landed property at danyore gilgit went into the share of muhammad shafa and his brother while landed at aliabad hunza went into the share of nadir aman and his brothers. the legal heirs of the respective parties are in the possession of the respective properties. he reiterates that although there are concurrent findings of the three courts below against the petitioner yet the said findings were based on misrepresentatio n, fraud and want of jurisdiction and the same may graciously be set aside being not sustainable. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment as well as the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. he contends that filing of the suit and the proceedings thereto in various courts of law was in the knowledge of the petitioners. further, the petitioner page also contested the suit by joining the proceedings, hence, the plea of fraud and misrepresentation taken by the petitioner is not understandable. per learned counsel, the house in question was handed over to the plaintiff in the year by the elders of qabila-e-khurkose by partitioning the joint property of the respective parties and the responden ts are in the possession of the said land house since then. he contends that the possession of the property in question has been admitted by the petitioner defendant in para and in their written statement s. per learned counsel, all the three courts below have rightly dismissed the application under section () cpc filed by the petitioner being not maintainable. he prays that the impugned .. the learned chief court may graciously be affirmed. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment as well as orders judgments of courts below. the learned counsel for the petitioner has not controverted that the proceedings on record of civil suit and the revision, was in the knowledge of the petitioner rather they participated in the said proceedings. in our considered view, the impugned judgment the learned chief court is well reasoned as no infirmity and illegality is pointed out by the learned counsel for the petitioners, hence, no interference is warranted into the impugned judgment. page in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.