page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at registry branch skardu. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. government of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. secretary education gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. director education baltistan region, skardu. deputy director education ghanche, hapulu. district accounts officer ghanche, khapulu. ddo headmaster high school daghoni khapulu. ddo headmaster high school keris ghanche. ddo headmaster high school thallay ghanche. ddo headmaster high school ghowari ghanche. ddo headmaster high school partok ghanche. petitioners. sonia ghulam abbas tehsil khapulu, district skardu. zubaida musa ali balgar, tehsil daghoni, district ghanche. ahmed ali abdul rahim tehsil daghoni, district ghanche. zahra batool fida ali tehsil daghoni, district ghanche. muhamm ad saleem shakoor ali tehsil daghoni, district ghanche. fayyaz hussain akhond tariq kharkoh tehsil daghoni, district ghanche. anwar ali muhammad ali tehsil daghoni, district ghanche. khadija enayat muhammad nazir tehsil daghoni, district ghanche. muhammad ali son of musa kharkoh tehsil daghoni, district ghanche. muhammad ishaque son of ghulam rasool kharkoh tehsil daghoni, district ghanche. abdul hameed son of muhammad hussain balghar tehsil daghoni, district ghanche. saima ghulam hussain noorani thallay tehsil daghoni, district ghanche. najma ibrahim thallay tehsil daghoni, district ghanche. page nazia akari ghulam mehdi tehsil khapulu district ghanche. maryam muhammad yousaf tehsil khapulu district ghanche. arfa bano muhammad yousaf tehsil khapulu district ghanche. fiza bano mushtaq hussain kharkoh tehsil daghoni district ghanche. tahira dawood tehsil khapulu district ghanche. maila batool ghulam hus sain tehsil khapulu district ghanche. respondents. present:- the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the petitioners. -baltistan. date of hearing: --. date of detail judgment: -... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed against the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby the same revision petition was allowed vide .. by converting the civil revision into a writ petition. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal while suspending the impugned judgment of the learned gil git-baltistan chief court. the case was fixed for final arguments on ... page the learned advocate general alongwith education department gilgit -baltistan submits that the order of the learned trial court was passed in accordance with the law and the appointment letter was illegal, void and without any lawful authority. they further submit that the person who issued the appointment letters was not competent officer to issue the same. they further submit that the orde of the learned trial court was upheld by the learned district -baltistan. they further submit that the learned trial court dismissed the application under order rule () () read with section cpc. they further submit that the learned trial court upon hearing rejected the plaint under order rule cpc. they further submit that the learned district they further submit that the proceedings regarding rejection of plaint under order rule kept alive which was still pending adjudication. they also submit that the respondent no. muhammad iqbal filed civil review no. and civil review no. filed by sonia ghulam abbas and upon hearing both the parties the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court converted the review applications into a writ petition and the same was allowed. they further submit that the impugned judgment passed page by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court without perusing the records and misreading non -reading of the facts of case, therefore, the sam is not tenabl and liable to set aside. on the other hand the learned counsels for the respondent support the impugned judgment. they contend that the education department ghanche had some vacant posts of bps bps -, assistant head master and head master (bps -) created either freshly or fallen vacant due to retirement of some teachers in the year and they further contend that through internal inspections and scrutiny of service record of teachers and office staff it transpired that during the perio of the respondent have been appointed in bps by the then director education baltistan region in the vacant posts of teachers from bps to they further contend that the services of the respondent were terminated neither serving them wit a show cause notice nor they were afforded an opportunity of being heard. they further contend that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has rightly allowed the writ petition of the respondent vide .. which is in accordance wi th law and facts of the case, hence, no interference is warranted into it and the same is required to be maintained to meet the ends of justice. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. consequently, we converted page this petitio into an appeal and the same was allowed vide our .. consequent thereto the impugned .. in writ petition the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court was set aside. the case is remanded back to the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal with the directions to decide the case expeditiously on its merit within a period of one month after receipt of this order. in the meanwhile we stay the recoveries of the salaries as directed by the learned district .. from the respondent till the decision of the case by the learned service tribunal gilgit -baltistan. these were the reasons for our short ... the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief jud ge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?