page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. gul zaman others petitioners. abdul qayyum others respondents. civil appeal no. in cpla no. abdul qayyum others petitioners. gul zaman others respondents. present: johar ali advocate for the petitioner in civil appeal no. in cpla no. and for the respondent in civil appeal no. in cpla no. sher alam advocate for the respondent in civil appeal no. in cpla no. and for the petitioner in civil appeal no. in cpla no. date of hearing: ... date of announcement of judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... these civil appeal have arisen out of the common impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the appeal filed by the respondent in civil appeal no. in cpla no. and petitioner in civil appeal no. in cpla no. page was par tially allowed by reversing the order of the learned referee court up to the extent of respondent no. to and to and the suit was rejected against respondent no. to under order rule cpc. the petitioner in both the aforementioned appeals being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned order filed these petition for leave to appeal. this court vide order dated .. and .. respectively granted leave to appeal in both the cases and the same are heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent in civil appeal no. in cpla no. and petitioner in civil appeal no. in cpla no. filed reference petition under section of the land acquisition act, before the learned referee district lac (abdp) dated .. the collector diamer. as per the contention of the said petitioner in civil appeal no. in cpla no. the disputed land under variou khasra numbers situated at gais bala chilas was in the ownership of the grandfather of the respondent no. to (namely zaidullah) as amanat who had left the land with father of appellant no. to on trust (as amanat) and he himself had shifte to gonar farm and from there to chilas near kkh. the said petitioner have denied the version of the respondent with the plea that grandfather of the respondent no. to has migrated gais bala about years ago who had no concern ed with the village gais and has no legacy in the village gais bala. the page petitioner have also filed an application for rejecting dismissing of the reference petition filed before the learned referee court district upon hearing the learned referee distri ct to vide ... earlier, the respondent no. to in civil appeal no. in cpla no. filed a civil suit no. in the learned civil the respondent being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed civil first appeal no. before the learned chief court which upon hearing was partially allowed by reversing the judgment of the learned referee district the learned counsel for the petitioner in civil appeal no. in (cpla no. submit that the respondent have no locus standi to file the reference petition under section of the land acquisition act, as they have withdrawn the civil suit unconditionally. per learned counsels, the respondent no. to had raised no objection before the land acquiring agency as well as before the learned collector at the time of passing of the awards in the name of the petitioners, hence, their case is hit by estoppel. they submit that the .. the learned referee distr ict -reading non appreciation of the facts of the case, hence, the same is require to be set aside by maintai ning the judgment of the learned referee district on the other hand, the learned counsels appearing on behalf of the respondent in civil appeal no. in (cpla no. and for the petitioner in civil appeal no. in (cpla no. contend that the respondent petitioner in reference petition have claimed that the land in question was acquired for the construction of diamer bash dam was the ownership of their grandfather namely zaidullah. in this connection a list of the residents of mouza gais bala was prepared by the then assistant political agent district diamer but his name has not been disclosed in the said list. they further contend that the petitioner in reference petition belong to soniwal family and admitted ly soniwall families have no proprietary rights over the lands situated at district diamer. per learned counsels, the petitioner have miserably failed to produce any documentary evidence in support of their contentions. the disputed property is in the pos session of the respondent since last more than years as such the reference petition filed by the petitioner is hopelessly barred by time. they contend that the petitioner are strangers, hence, they have no cause of action to file the reference petit ion. they pray that the impugned .. the learned chief court as well as the .. the page learned land acquisition district lac (abdp) dated .. th collector diamer may graciously be set aside. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned .. the learned chief court, the .. the learned land acquisition district lac (abdp) dated .. the collector diamer. in our considered view, the common impugned .. the learned chie court is not well reasoned and well founded whereas the .. in reference petition no. learned district land acquisition the learned acqui sition in (cpla no. as they could not prove the alleged landed property which according to them was left with one az izullah the father of the petitioner in civil appeal no. and by one zaidullah (the father of the petitioners) in civil appeal no. in (cpla no. as trust amanat. furthermore, they also failed to produce any documentary evidence in support of their contentions with regard to the land as amanat trust. page in view of the above discussions, the civil appeal no. in (cpla no. case ti tled gul zaman others abdul qayyum others, is allowed whereas the civil appeal no. in (cpla no. filed by abdul qayyum others gul zaman others, is dismissed. consequently, the common impugned .. the learned chief court is set aside by maintaining the .. in reference petition no. learned district land acquisition these appeals are disposed -off in above terms. chief judge. judge.