page in the supreme appellate court nothern areas gilgit cr. mis c. no. (chief judge) (judge) (judge) gulzar hussain tahir hussain adnan ali ahmed muhammad af zal abdur rehman krasmathing olding skardu. petitioner the state respondent occence under section ppc vide fir no. dated .. police station shigar leave to the order -- of learned chief court northern areas gilgit present: haji jamal khan advocate for the petitioner advocate general for the petitioner. date of hearing: .. order c.j: learned counsel for the petitioner at the very out set submitted that the case of adnan petitioner is distinguishable to that of two other petitioner namely gulzar hussain and muhammad afzal, therefore, he wou ld not press this the time being to his extent. this petition to the extent of adnan is dismissed, as not pressed. the learned counsel for gulzar hussain and muhammad afzal petitioner submitted that there is no evidence on record to connect the petitioner with crime. the medical examination report of victim is negative and neither the statement of the victim under section has been recorded nor identification of the petitioner who were stranger to him was held. the learned counsel submit ted that first informer was not an eye witness, therefore his evidence being hear say would be of no consequence. page the learned advocate general has not been able to contradict the above assertion of the learned for the petitioner on record. the perusal of record would show that the version of fir to the extend of petitioner is not as such supported by any evidence on record and consequently the case against them would squarely fall within the ambit of section () c.rpc for the purpose of bail. this petition is therefore converted into an appeal and bail is allowed to them, subject to their furnishing bail bonds in the sum of rs. one lac ,,) each the two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of trial court. the investigation in this case was badly conducted. the sub inspector who investigated the case without collecting the medical report from the concerned doctor and recording the statement of victim and also without identification parade of petitioner who were stranger to the victim before the occurrence submitted the challan. this was gross negligence and inefficiency of i.o which would amount to destroy the evidence and may have direct effect on prosecution case. the medical officer who initially examined the victim and prepa red preliminary medical report did not prepare final report, before .. when he was called to appear before this court case, who is under suspension and dsp is holding the inquiry. the ssp skardu will submit the final result of inquiry to the regist rar of this court. the ssp present in court states that a supplementary challan containing the statement of victim under section cr.p.c will be shortly filed before the trial court. the medical officer either lack of experience or due to negligence id not bother to prepare the medical report. he should be careful in future. chief