page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan cr. misc. no. hafiz -ur-rahman ibadat khan, dashkim tehsil district, astore petitioner accused the state .. respondent offence u ppc and section -a.o. fir no. p.s. astore. leave to the order judgment of chief court dated --, whereby the bail petition of the appel lant petitioner has been declined without any cogent reason and against the mandate of law. very graciously converting this petition into appeal and allowing the same to meet the ends of justice. present: malik aq nawaz, advocate for petitioner. advo cate ge neral gilgit -baltistan for the state. date of hearing: --. order. syed jaffar shah -- sin gle -baltistan in criminal misc. no. hereby rejecting the bai application of the petitioner in a case registered u ppc with police station astore vide fir no. page the brief facts leading to the present petitioner are that one muhammed zareel district astore lodged an fir with police station astore alleging ther ein tha on receiving information about murder of is real uncle muhammad kabi l, he rushed to place of occurrence where he found that some other people had also gathered thereon. on his inquiry he was informe that his uncle deceased muhammad kabil who was working as road cooli had proceed ed to place of his duty along with sohail ahmed muhammad ayoub, sohail akbar ali and mir ghazi mouza dashkin astore when the deceased and his companions reached he place of occurrence at about a.m some unknown assailant assailants hit the deceased at the back side of his head with fire arms, resultantly he died at the spot. the motive alleged by compliant in the fir is that about months prior to the occurrence, sister of co -accused zahid hussain had eloped with one tahir and later on entered into marriage the complainant suspected that the deceased had facilitate this elopement. the police on receiving written complaint, registered a case on -- u vide fir no. and after conducting necessary investigation challan ed the accused petitioner along with other co -accused under section ppc and on alleged recovery of weapon of offence another fir under section -a.o was also register ed. page the petitioner and co -accused moved their bail application before additional district sessions who vide -- allowed bail petition of one of co -accused namely uma rahman and dismissed bail application qua present petitioner and zahid hussain. the petitioner and co -accused zahid hussain having been declined their bail application, filed application for bail before the learned chief court gilgit baltistan which came to be raja jalal -ud-din, chief -accused namely zahid hussain. the learned counsel for petitioner contended that the petitioner is innocent and case a gainst petitioner is based absolutely on false and baseless allegations, that there is no tangible evidence against the petitioner and both the co -accused have been enlarged on bail as such the present petitioner is also entitled for grant of bail as per ule of consistency. he further submitted that the alleged recovery of weapon of offence is of no value as the same has been recovered on joint pointation of present petitioner and his co -accused who has already been enlarged on bail. the learned advoc ate general on the other hand while strenuously opposing the petition stressed that the petitioner is page directly charged in the prompt ly lodged fir, that the weapo of offence has been recovered on his pointation and the prosecution has successfully esta blished a prima facie case against the petitioner as such he is not entitled for concession of bail. we have carefully attended to the arguments of learned counsel for both sides at length and have perused the available material with due care and caut ion and have also gone through the impugned judgment, from perusal of the record it transpires that no doubt the offence has been commit ted in brought day light, name of the petitioner is also mentioned in the fir lodged by muhammad zareel as a suspect, re covery of weapon of offence is also allegedly made on the pointation of petitioner but from tentative assessment of the material available on record there is no direct evidence to connect the petitioner with the present crime, three accused namely zahid hu ssain muhammad zaman, hafiz -ur-rahman ibadat kha n, the present petitioner and imranul haque muhammad ayoub have been nominated in the fir as suspects and the star witness of the occurrence namely so hail ahmed muhammad ayoub, the brother in law of deceased who was also mentioned as a witness of the occurrence by fir lodger states in his statement under section cr.p.c. to have seen one imranul haque holding a pistol in his hand, the said umarul haque has already been released on bail by earned additional sessions vide --. the said witness was also produced as pw before the trial court on page -- where he categorically denied to have seen any person firing at the deceased. it is the case of prosecution that when the pw sohail soon after the firing at the deceased saw one imran -ul-haque muhammad ayoub holding a pistol in his hand at the place of occurrence but the prosecution has neither recovered any pistol from him nor he has been figur ed in challan, rather the recovery of the pistol has been shown to have been effected on the pointation of etitioner and other co accused umarul rehman amirullah. it is also stated that there is no fire arms export report with the prosecution to ascer tain whether the fire has been made by the pisto recovered from petitioner or not. whatever discussed above the case against the petitioner calls for further inquiry into his guilt within the purview of section () cr.p.c. this petition is theref ore, converted into appeal and allowed. however, our above observation are purely tentative in na ture and the trial court shall proceed with the case un -influenced by this order. our shot order by virtue of which the petitioner was allowed bail reproduc ed herein under is treated as part of this order. for the reasons to be recorded separately, this petition is converted into appeal and allowed. the appellant is directed to be released on bail subject to furnishing of bail bonds in the sum of rs. one lac only (,) with two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of trial court page petition converted into appeal and allowed.