page in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan, at gilgit cr. appeal no. chief judge. judge. hajat ali abdullah shah nagar at preset h.c. gilgit baltistan police special branch gilgit petitioner the state respondent crimial the -- passed hono uable chief court gilgit -baltistan whereby the petitioner has been convict ed under section of contempt of court act and sentenced him to under go simple imprisonment with fine of rs. in default of payament of fine further ungergo simple impr isonemtn of one month present: mr: muhammad issa, sr advocate and advocate for petitioner advocate gerneral gilgit baltistan for the state haji jamal khan, a.o. r. -- order: these connected appeals have been filed against the conviction and sentence awarded to the appellant by the chief court under contempt of court act read with act of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order having heard the le arned counsel for the appellant and learned advocate general as well as perused the record we find that the contempt proceedings were initiated against all the appellant but page charge sheet was framed only against eman shah and tariq hussain shah whereas neither a proper show cause notice was issued to hajat ali, a police official and atta ullah, composer of daily ausuaf nor a formal charge was framed against them rather they on the basis of their statement recorded by the court during the contempt proceedi ngs have been convicted. the allegation against hajit ali is that he sent a special report to his higher officer in official business containing contemptuous material and atta ullah composer of the news item has been proceeded against in similar manner wit hout issue of show cause notice and framing of charge as per requirement of la w. eman shah and tariq hussain shah appellant have contested the show cause notice without filing a formal reply. the version of eman shah was that he had no knowledge the contents of the news item, whereas the plea of tariq hussain shah was that he on the basis of the report of official of special branch made fair comments in the news item. the learned counsel for the appellant submitted that due to lack of proper legal advice the appellant have contested the notice instead of tendering unqualified apology before the chief court and taking plea of lack of knowledge and fair comments in good faith made statement before the court accordingly, but having realized their mistake have repented and placed themselves at the mercy of court with unconditional apology. the learned advocate general has submitted that the appellant should have tendered unconditional apology before the chief court. the perusal of record ould show that hajat ali, and atti ullah were not given proper show cause notice and also formal charge was not framed against them whereas charge was framed against eman shah and tariq hussain shah after giving them proper show cause notice and they also in their statement before the court replied the charge in detail. page be that as it may these appeals have been filed against the short order passed on --, whereas the main judgment was released on --, and appellant instead of tendering un condition al apology before this court can avail the remedy of review petition before the chief court and limitation for filing of review petition has not yet expired. in consequence to the position taken by the learned counsel on behalf of the appellants, we without commenting upon the merits of the case deem it proper to dispose of these appeals with the observation that appellant may avail the remedy of review petition before the chief court and if so desire also tender unconditional apology before the hief court. in the meanwhile till pending final disposal of review petitions, the appellant are released on bail subject to their furnishing of bails bound in the sum of rs. one lac with one surety each, to the satisfaction of registrar of the chief court. the appellant have been produced in court under custody and they shall released from custody on furnishing of bail bounds. these appeals are disposed of. chief