page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. hamidullah son of safar ali resident of eidgah astore petitioner. lal din others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court whereby the civil revision filed by the respondent was dismissed by maintaining the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. the petitioner being a ggrieved filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case was heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner filed a civil suit no. in the court of learned civil the petitioner plaintiff contended in the suit that the respondent have page no right to make a pedestrian passage through the land of the petitioner by using the same as his animal track during spring seasons. per the averments of the petitioner, the respondent have an alternate way for their pasture. the respondent denied all the averment of the plaint contending therein that the passage in question is used by them ince last years to take their animals to the pasture. the learned trial court upon hearing dismissed the civil suit of the petitioner being meritless vide .. which was upheld up to the learned chief court. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that although there are concurrent findings of the learned three courts below in favour of the respondent yet the all courts below fell in error while passing the impugned judgments orders. he submits that th respondent have an alternate way passage to their pasture provided by one sharif. per learned counsel, the local respondent interfering into the land of the petitioner by claiming the same as their passage. he further submits that the respondent failed to prove their claim through documentary as well as oral evidence that the said passage has been used by them for last years. on the directives of the learned trial court an inquiry committee was constituted consisting of the revenue officials. the committee reported that no path is available on the site as no sketch cloth and masavi is found in the revenue record. per learned counsel, it has been also reported in the inquiry that an alternate passage of to feet is existed at the site for the page animal track passage for the respondents. during the trial of the case in the learned chief court it was also directed to inquire into the matter by the learned assistant com missioner astore wherein he again narrated the previous report. the learne chief court instead of said two reports has wrongly dismissed the civil revision of the petitioner vide impugned .. by maintaining the concurrent findings of the courts below. he submits that the impugned judgment is not sustainable and li able to be set aside. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment the learned chief court. he contends that the disputed passage is the traditional way of the respondent which has been used for ast years and the petitioner is wrongly trying to interfere into it. he also contends that the petitioner failed to produce any oral as well as documentary evidence in support of his claim whereas the respondent proved their contentions through credibl evidence. per learned counsel, the learned courts below have rightly dismissed the suit of the petitioner being meritless, hence, the same are required to be maintained. he prays that the impugned judgment may pleased be affirmed. we have heard the earned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record of the case and gone through the impugned judgment as well as the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. in our considered view, the page impugned judgment as well as the concurrent findings of the learned courts below are well reasoned and well founded, hence, no indulgence is warranted into its. further, the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any infirmity in the impugned judgment. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismiss ed in above terms. chief judge. judge.