page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. hassan abad shah others petitioners. yadwar khan others respondents. present: johar ali khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil petition has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the civil revision no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed, hence, this leave appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent plaintiff filed civil suit no. in the learned court of civil originally the suit land was the property of one bulbul khan who had three () daughters namely mst. dudi, jamali and zahra. after the death of bulbul khan his legacy was devolved upon his three daughter s. at that time customary law was prevailing in the area as such the disputed land remained with the page descendant of muhammad ali, the real brother of bulbul khan. the property in question was devolved upon the legal heirs of muhammad ali. earlier the proper ty was divided between the two () brothers but possession of land of bulbul khan came to the respondent becaus bulbul khan had no male issue. it has contended that out of the three () daughters of late bulbul khan mst. dudi died issueless as such her share of land had devolved equally upon the remaining two daughters i.e. mst. jamali zahra but the offspring of mst. zahra did not join the suit, therefore, they have been impleaded as defendant whereas defendant to to are the persons whom some of the disputed land out of the common legacy have been sold out. the nutshell of the suit is that the plaintiff claimed for share of the landed property devolved upon bulbul khan from his father. the learned trial court upon hearing partially ecreed the suit against defendant no. to and dismissed against rest of the defendant respondents. the petitioner being aggrieved filed civil first appeal no. in the learned district .. which was upheld by the learned chief court vide impugned ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that although there are three concurrent findings against the petitioner yet the learned courts below failed to appreciate the evidence produced by the petitioner and passed the impugned judgments orders. he submits that the civil suit filed by the page respondent was barred by time and the suit was amended due to non-joinder of the necessary part, hence, the suit was liable to be dismissed under order rule cpc as the plaintiff have no locus stan di to file the suit in question. per learned counsel, the dispute is an old one and at that time there was customary laws were pre vailing in the society. according to which the female were not entitled for their share in the legacy of their late father. he further submits that the respondent are in the possession of the disputed property since long time as the petitioner did not ra ise any objection at the time of affecting transactions between the petitioner and other parties. he submits that the impugned judgment as well as the judgments the learned courts below have been passed contrary to the evidence on record, facts and law, hence, the same are not sustainable and liable to be set aside. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment the learned chief court as well as the concurrent findings of the learned court below. he contends that the respondent have admitted that the property of (late) was in their illegal possession and the legal heirs of the said bulbul khan have not been given their share r(s). he also contends that costmary laws do not preclude the shari share of the respondent from the legacy of their father. per learned counsel, the respondent have prove their contentions by adducing credible evidence before the learned page trial court. per learned counsel, the suit was filed well within time as the provisions of section of the limitation act, have been declared contrary to the injunctions of islam by the he prays that the impugned judgment the learned chief court may pleased be maintained to me et the ends of justice. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment as well as the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. in our considered vi ew, the impugned judgment the learned chief court as well as the concurrent findings of the learned courts below are well founded as no infir mity illegality is pointed out by the learned counsel for the petitioner in the impugned judgment. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequent thereto, the impugned .. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.