page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. misc. no. in cr. review. no. in cr. appeal no. himayatullah khan petitioner. mir shakeel -ur-rehman another respondents. present: nemo for the petitioner. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the state. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this cr. review petition has arisen out of the common impugned .. this court whereby both the cr. appeal no. filed by mir shakeel -ur-rehman and cr. appeal no. filed by asad bashir khattak were allowed and they were acquitted from all charges. the review petition has been filed belatedly after unexplained delay of more than three () months. the petitioner, however, also filed cr. misc. no. for condonation of delay stating therein that this court has passed the common impugned judgment in tota disregard to the provisions contained in order page xxiii rule of the supreme appellate court rules as per petitioner, no limitation runs for filing review petition against the said void common impugned judgmen t. it is further averred that the delay in filing this cr. review petition is not intentional nor negligence the part of the petitioner which, however, is not substantiated with any supportive case law(s). the grounds raised in the said application for condonation of delay are not reasonable and plausible, hence, the same cannot be considered as held by th is court in cases reported as gblr and gblr and by the apex court of pakistan in cases reported as scmr scmr scmr scmr whereby it is held that even one day unexplained delay in filing the petition(s) was not condoned. submits that mir shakeel -ur-rehman was is the only target of the petitioner for ulterior motives as the review petition s, against the rest of three petitio ners in cr. appeal no. namely (i). (ii). (iii). were not filed who were also acquitted alongwith mir shakeel -ur-rehman vide said common impugned .. this court. the review petition filed only against the respondent mir shakeel -ur-rehman is discriminatory in nature. per learned counsel, the respondent no. mir shakeel -ur-rehman has no concerned with the management of page the morning show telecast in question. the said show was organized and managed by the independent media corporation which is a private corporation. nei ther the respondent no. mir shakeel -ur-rehman was the director or member nor the manager organizer of the sai morning show. he reiterates that the respondent no. mir shakeel -ur-rehman was neither a share holder nor any executive director of the geo channel in terms of section of the companies ordinance he also submits that the petitioner misinterpreted order xxiii rule of the supreme appellate court rules which deals with the condemned prison ers. he prays that the common impugned judgment this court is well reasoned and well founded, hence, review petition filed by the petitioner is not maintainable and liable to be dismissed. the learned advocate general gilgit baltistan has not controverted the law laid down by this court and by the apex court of pakistan regarding the dismissal of petition (s) on the point of u nexplained delay even for one day. we have gone through the averments made by the petitioner in review petition, heard the learned counsel for the respondent no. mir shakeel -ur-rehman, the learned advocate general for respondent no., the state and also gone through the case laws referred above. the order xxiii rule of the supreme appellate court rules referred by the petitioner in support of condonation of delay is also not applicable. no infirmity and illegality is pointed out in the commo impugned judgment of this page court by the petitioner, hence, the same is sustainable. the cr. review petition filed by the petitioner is hopelessly barred by time for a period of more than three () months. consequently, this cr. review petition is dismissed by maintaining the common impugned .. in cr. appeal no. this court. the cr. review petition no. is dismissed alongwith the listed misc. application in above terms. chief judge. judge.