page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. ibrahim baig hajat baig haiderpura gilgit petitioner. raja haider ali others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. rehmat ali advocate -on-record for respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed against the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court whe reby the said civil revision filed by the petitioner was dismissed, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent filed rent petition no. in the court of the learned senior civil -baltistan rented premises act, seeking ejection of petitioner (tenant) from demised premises on the ground of personal use on ermination of agreement dated .. executed by the deceased father of the page respondent with the petitioner for years. the said period expired on ... the learned civil court upon hearing, allowed the rent petition filed by the respondent by directing the petitioner to vacate the premises and put the respondent in possession. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed civil first appeal no. in the learned district ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the respondent have failed to prove that the rented premises are required for personal use of the respondents. per learned counsel, the agreement purportedly executed between the parties on .. is a forged document. the said stamp paper was purchased by father of the respondent and the petitioner has not signed and executed the said agreement. he further submits that tenant can be ejected only on the ground that if he fails to pay the rent to the landlord or sublets the rented premises. admittedly, the respondent failed to establish the aforesaid two ground s. he reiterates that the petitioner has made improvements on the sa id suit building by constructing of rooms, bathrooms, hall and a kitchen spending his own huge amount, hence, the judgments orders the learned courts below are contrary to law and facts on record. he prays that the impugned order the learned chief court may graciously be set aside. page on the other hand, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent supports that impugned order as we ll as the judgments orders the learned courts below. he contends that the respondent no. and namely raja haider ali and raja hussain ali both are jobless and they need the building in question for their personal use to start their own busin ess therein. per learned counsel, the petitioner failed to produce marginal witnesses of the agreement dated .. executed between the parties rather the respondent have produced one marginal witness of the said agreement namely abdul qayyum who has endorsed the contents of agreement. he submits that the concurrent findings of the learned courts below are well reasoned and well founded. he prays that concurrent findings the learned courts below may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. the respondent filed the rent case in the court of learned rent controller gilgit seeking eject ion of the petitioner on the expiry of lease agreement for their personal use. in our considered view, the respondent being owners and landlords of the demised property could not be deprived of their right and interest to use their property in a manner mo re suited to their requirements. no unreasonable restriction can be placed on the exercise of their rights which would offend the fundamental rights guaranteed under page article of the constitution. it may suffice to observe that the learned rent controller, first appellate court as well as the learned chief court have recorded concurrent findings of facts after careful consideration of the evidence adduced by both the parties. we hold that the satisfaction of the learned rent controller is born out by the aterial available on record and finding of fact backed by satisfactory evidence recorded by him. the learned chief court while concurring with the views taken by the first appellate court and the court of first instance do not appear to have suffered from misreading on non -reading of evidence. further, the learned counsel for the petitioner also could not point out any infirmity or illegality in the well reasoned impugned order the learned chief court, hence, interference into concurrent findings of the three courts below is not warranted by this court. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. in civil revision no. th learned chief court as well as the concurrent findings of the learned courts below are affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.