page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. appeal no. in cpla no. ibrar ali others petitioners. provincial government others respondents. present: is present in person. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the respondents. date of hearing: .. date of announcement of judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has been directed against the impugned .. in service appeal no. the learned service tribunal gilgit -baltistan whereby the said service appeal filed by the petitioner was dismissed being not maintainable, hence, this appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal. consequently, notices were issued to the respondent and the case was heard on ... briefly, the facts of th case are that the petitioner were appointed as machinists (bps -) on work charge basis on .. under water power department gilgit -baltistan. page later on, the posts of the petitioner were re -designated and upgraded as sub -engineer (bps -) by tr ansferring the same posts to maintenance head as regular temporary employees (rte). subsequently, the petitioner joined the project posts of megawatt hydro power project phase iii gilgit purely on contract basis for a period of three years. wh ereafter, as per record, the finance department gilgit -baltistan sanctioned posts for water power department. consequently, the services of the petitioner were regularized against the newly created posts of sub engineers on ... afterward, he secretary services gilgit baltistan vide office .., declared the regularization appointment of the petitioner null void because the appointment of the petitioner was made without fulfilling the prescribed service rules and law by declaring the departmental selection committee for regularization of the work charge employees as illegal. secondly, the appointment was made during the ban so imposed by the federal government. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, fi led service appeal before learned service tribunal gilgit -baltistan which upon hearing was dismissed vide the above impugned order, hence, this appeal. the learned counsel as well as the learned advocate -on- record for the petitioners, were not in atte ndance inspite of issuance of notice to them and the same were served upon them properly. the petitioner no. was present who was directed to file written arguments with the consultation of his counsel within one page week vide this court .. the petitioner did not bother to file the written argument in pursuance of the order of this court. consequently, this case is heard and decided on its own merits. the petitioner in their petition contended that they have served the respondent for a considerable period as work -charge and rte employees and their services have also been regularized in line with the policy of the federal government. the respondent without issuing any show cause terminated their services which is against the golden prin ciples of natural justice. they also contended that after being regularized they have got certain vested rights which afterward have been taken away by an administrative order by the respondents, hence, the impugned termination order is illegal void ab -initio and has been issued without unlawful authority which is not tenable. the learned service tribunal fell in error in dismissing the service appeal of the petitioner which is liable to set aside. on the other hand, the learned advocate general suppo rts the impugned judgment the learned service tribunal gilgit -baltistan. the petitioner were serving on work charge and regular temporary employees (rte) employees and their service were regularized without completing the codal formalities of se rvice law i.e. no advertisement was ever published and no test interview was ever conducted. per learned advocate general, there was ban by the federal government on appointment and regularization of the employees at that time. consequently, the learned se rvice tribunal has rightly dismissed page the service appeal of the petitioner and the same be graciously upheld. we have heard the learned advocate general, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment. admittedly, the appointmen regularization of the petitioner were made without fulfilling the requisite prescribed service rules i.e. the advertisement of the posts, constitution of the departmental selection committee to conduct test interview etc. furthermore, it is also an admi tted fact that the federal government had imposed ban on appointment and regularization of employees at the time of the regularization of the petitioners, hence, the appointment regularization of the petitioner was illegal, unlawful and ab -initio void. in our considered view, the learned service tribunal gilgit baltistan has rightly dismissed the appeal of the petitioner and no indulgence is warranted into it by this court. in view of the above discussions, we dismiss this appeal by upholding the i mpugned .. in service appeal no. learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.