page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, registry branch skardu. -ud-din, acting chief judge. judge. cpla no. iftikhar ali shah khan resident of khomer gilgit. (petitioner karakoram international university kiu oad konodas gilgit, through. vice chancellor kiu. registrar kiu. hr manager kiu. assistant professor department of ir kiu. (respondents leave to impugned judgment august divisional bench chief court in w.p no. whereby learned chief court partially accepted w.p while refusing remedies for permanent appointment and setting aside the impugned termination order respondent dated may petition fot the grant of leave to appeal to appeal aginst impugned judgment august division bench chief court in w.p no. whereby learned chief court partially accepted w.p hile refusing remedies for permanent appointment and by the respondent dated may for partially setting aside verdict of chief court incorporated in para no. of impugned judgment and for setting aside impugned -- res pondents, further more appointment of petitioner may be declared permanent against bps as assistant professor at ir departmaent kiu to meet the ends of justice. present: mir ikhalq hussain advocate on behalf of the respondents. page date of hearing: --. judgment. muzaffar ali, .we converted c.p.l.a no. into an appeal vide --, after hearing the counsel for the petitioner. through this appeal, the ap pellant impug ned the .. the learned division ench of chief court gilgit baltistan in writ petition no. filed by the present appellant petitioner against the present respondents. the brief facts wrapped with this appeal can be summarized as that, the respondent no. to advertised two posts i.e. one position of assistant professor (bps -) on regular basis and one post on contract basis. the appellant and the respondent no. (struck off) short -listed and calle for presentation before the selection board. thereafter, the appellant was appointed agains the contract post and mst. sadia baig against the regular post (bps -). the contract services of the appellant were extended from time to time. the appellan submitted a departmental appeal before respondent no. against the decision of the selection board but instead of deciding his appeal on its merits, the respondent no. issued termination of contract service of the appellant petitioner before expiry of the last extended contractual period al ongwith a permanent restriction, the same is reproduced as under: page the facts narrated above paddled up the appellant to fight legal battle against the respondent before the courts of law, resultantly, he filed the writ petition no. before the learned chief court, gilgit -baltista n. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan passed the impugned jud gment with operative part there in as below:- result is that the remedies sought through this petition in reliefs no. and cannot be allowed and to that extent we dismiss this petition. anyhow, we grant the following relief: a). respondent are bound to pay salary of the petitioner for the complete period of his contract appointment. from perusal of file, it is evident that petitioner was appointed for two years from -- to and petitioner was terminated through -. so, respondent are to pay the arrears of salary of petitioner from -- to --. b). petitioner is entitled to appear in any com any post in kiu, but that also i he fulfills the qualification required for any such test or interview. hence this appeal before this court against the impugned .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. we heard the learned counsel for the pa rties on and the case was fixed for consideration and final decision. hence this judgment is announced today on ... the considerable points raised by the learned counsel for the appellant petitioner are as such, page (a) that the chairman, department of international relation (ir) sent requisition of two () budgeted positions of assistant professors (bps -) and one leave vacancy to be adjusted by respo ndent no.. the respondent no. and malafidely ignored the requisition made by the cha irman i nternational relation and in utter violation of the requisition, advertised one regular post and one post of assist ant professor on contract basis, keeping one budgeted post vacant without any plausible reason. this malafide omission by th respondent no. adversely effected the appell ant career. (b) that mst. saadia baig was not eligible to be short listed as she was not qualifying the terms and condition of the advertisement till the final date of submission of the application co upled with the required credentials, but the respondent no. accepted he application with a sentence to whom it may concern and despite her disqualification, she was selected against the regular post while the appellant petitioner was offered the contr act post. (c) that facing the discriminatory situation the appellant petitioner requested to unveil the minutes and result of the selection board but the same was refused. (d) that after joining the post the appellant petitioner made protest through depa rtmental appeal to the respondent no. but instead of conducting any inquiry, the respondent no. page in avenge, issued the impugned termination order with a dictatorial restriction without issuing any show cause notice. (e) the impugned termination order and the restriction there in show the malafide of the respondent and the same is worst example of the unheard action aken against the appellant petitioner. the learned division bench of the chief court, gilgit -baltistan reached to the conclusion tha t, the termination ord er and the restriction imposed therein is not tenable in the eyes of law, but at the same time it erred in law by holding dismissal of the writ petition and by refusing the legal remedies sought, ignoring the binding force of judgments delivered by this court and persuasive sanction of the judgments delivered by the honorable supreme court of pakistan and islamabad high court, referred as civil review petition no. syed mazhar ali shah and others vc kiu and others and cpla no. vc kiu and another mst. kaneez fatima, civil petition of quaid -e-azam university islamabad muhammad sadiq and two others, writ petition no. muhammad sadiq and another quaid -e- azam univ ersity etc. the learned counsel for the respondent responded the above points as under: page (a) that, it was in discretion of the respondent to either advertise one regular post vacant or both. the appellant has no vested right to compel respondent to advertise any vacant post at any particular time. (b) that the respondent were not bound to show the result of the selection board to the appellant petitioner. the appellant accepted the offer of the respondent with his free will and joined the post contract basis as such, he is stopped by his conduct to claim regular appointment. (c) that the respondent had qualified against a leave vacancy post, as such his claim was meaningless and without lawful sanction behi nd, hence the learned division bench of the chief court dismissed the writ petition. (d) the conduct of the appellant was unbecoming as his appeal to the respondent no. could not be acceded to and he was not only terminated from his contractual services but also he was liable to be debarred for all kind of employment at kiu. (e) that the judgments of this court and august supreme court of pakistan referred by the appellant petitioner are not identical with the instant case. we with the able assistance of the learned counsel for the partie s, have gone through the record of the case and visited through the points rai sed by both the learned counsel, perusal of the record reveals that the 1st point raised by the page learned counsel for the appellant petitioner is correct that, two budgeted regular posts were vacant in the i nternational relation epartment and the chairman of the department had sent requisition of two budgeted posts in addition of a leave vacancy to be advertised by respondent no the respondent no kept one regular post ending and adverti sed only one regular post along with one contract post despite the requisition made by the department as per needs. the learned counsel tried to meet this point with the plea that, it was within the discretion of the respondent either to a dvertise one or two regular posts and the appellant having no right to compel them to advertise or not to advertise. we are not agreed with the plea taken by the learned counsel for the respondent to say that the discretionary powers vested with an aut hority could not be called in question. the legal discretion is not a sweet will, it must be exercise with reasons and keeping in view the logic of the rules and law which vested the authority with the discretion. in the case in hand the respondent no might have discretion but they had to look into academic needs of the department. the respondent no are having administrative responsibilities over an educational institution and future of the nation is attached with. the respondent are sup posed to fulfill the requirements of the institution and they are not there to withhold even budgeted page posts despite the requisition made by the department keeping in view the academic needs. the appellant petitioner directly could not compel the respondent for advertisement of any vacant post but an adverse inference can be dra wn from the conduct of the respondent that either they kept the budget ed vacancy in waiting for a blue eyed candidate or they wanted to deprive the short listed candidate to take benefit to be regularly appointed against the said post. the minutes of the meeting and result prepared by the selection board was not secret and confidential but comes within the definition of public documents as such refusal to show the result or the minutes of the meeting to the appellant petitioner amounts to violation of law of the land and the conduct transpires malafide of respondent no and we are taken aback after going through the termination order against the appellant petitione r. the respondent instead of going into merits of the matter in appeal, deprived the appellant from his fundamental right to apply against any post to which he otherwise qualified without bringing any cogent reason on the record. we are really shocked whe ther the respondent no. (vice chancello r) and his registrar were ignorant of the relevant provisions of the constitution about the basic rights of a citizen of pakistan and the fundamental rights of the citizens of gilgit -baltistan page enshrined in article and of the gilgit -baltistan, (empowerment and self -governance) order, the state even cannot deny this protection and he safeguard against discrimination enjoyed by citizen unless ample proof is on record that, the citizen is involved in enemy like activities against the state or he is found guilty of violating law of the lan and his conduct is injurious to the state. the respondent imposed perpetual restriction against the appellant petitioner but without any proof only because the a ppellant petitioner protest ed discrimination against him through an appeal. we found no iota of evidence on the record of the case and ev en such record was attached then too the respondent are not empowered to impose such a perpetual restriction but they could simply terminate his service under rules after he was heard. on the other hand the appellant petitioner has attached appreciation letter issued by dean of faculty of sciences wherein, the dean has awarded him with high words of appreciation for is performance. the respondent have also extended his contractual service from time to time, which transpire that the services of the petitioner were satisfactory and up to the mark. the department has taken such serious actions and even he has been deba rred for applying services in the institution in future. in derogation of the provisions of the gilgit -baltistan (empoerment and self page governance) order, but without giving any chance to the appellant petitioner to defend him and all the supra discu ssion of the facts are sufficient to show malafidies of the administrative authorities (respondent and against the appellant and their malafidies provoked them even to violate principle of natural the principle is reco gnized by the superior courts as it has been embodied in law and rules even it has not been embodied in any statute or law. the last point, raised by the counsel for the petitioner as to the application of principle of estoppel against the respondent, ha ving no substance to attract us to hold it against the respondent for the reasons that principle of estoppel is a rule of evidence and not a cause of action or a source of title. it debars a party from aprobating and reprobating a statement given by, in respect of a specific fact. principle of estoppel cannot be extended to prevent an action of law even if a party has allowed or consented by conduct any authority to pass an order or to take an action, if the same order or action taken by the authority is ag ainst law and without lawful authority. (the supra view has been taken by this court on the point of estopple in the case titled vice chancellor kiu etc mst. kaneez fatima ). last but not the least, this court has settled a principle in favor of the candidates in contract in the cited page cases () civil review petition no. syed mazhar ali shah and others vc kiu and others, and () vc kiu and another mst. kaneez fatima, in both cases the fin ding is clear with the directions, the same are reproduced as under:- the rule of fair treatment and natural similarly the candidates who were appointed on contract basis in the prescribed manner would be entitled to be considered for regular appointment in their own right on the basis of their contract serv ice in the case in hand th appellant petitioner had been appointed contra ct basis, though against a leave vacant post but in prescribed manner s. the appellant petitioner was short listed and he qualified the test interview. his contract service were extended from time to time. he was not terminated from with the reason that the incumben against the leave vacancy had rejoin her his post but he was terminated without inserting any reason in the termination order. on regular post was vacant at th at time when the appellant had qualified after going through the prescribed manners. the regular post remained vacant without adverti sing the same till the appellant filed the writ petition and during pendency of the writ petition, it was advertised but st ayed. secondly, it was advertised when this page appeal is subjudice but the same is still vacant. the remedy in rem granted by this court as reproduced supra fully attracts the case in the hand. in nutshell, this appeal is accepted, the termination order is declared null and void and the restriction imposed in the termination 6th may, respondent no. has already been set aside by the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan and the respondent have not challenged the finding of the learned chief court in this regard through any appeal or through any cross objection before this court. hence, the respondent are directed to appoint the appellant petitioner against the vacant regular post givin him benefits of the principle laid down by this court in the above cited cases. cost to follow the event. file be consigned to record. the appeal is allowed. date of delivery of judgment: ... acting chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?