page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, at gilgit c.p.l.a. no. chief judge. judge. judge. ikhlaq hussain, assistant engineer, -mw hydro power project naltar gilgit. petitioner appellant mohammad hassan, sub engineer, presently assistant engineer, water power division, ghanche. ali rehbar, sub engineer, presently assistant engineer, water power division, gilgit. qari sha ms-ur-rehman, presently assistant engineer, water power division, gilgit. proforma respondent provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. secretary works gilgit -baltistan. superintending engineer works, water power gilgit. chief ngineer water power gilgit. executive engineer -mw hydro power project naltar gilgit. respondent leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order for setting aside the impugned judgment or der dated -- gilgit -baltistan, in writ petition no. filed by respondent no. to against petitioner and respondent no. to present: muhammad isa, senior advocate for petitioner alongwit mohammad abbas, advocate -on-record. malik shafqat wali and shoukat ali, senior advocates for respondent no. to advocate general, gilgit -baltistan, for respondent dated of hearing: --. judgment syed jaffar shah, this ap peal by leave of this court is directed against --, chief page court, gilgit -baltistan, in writ petition no. whereby the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan, while accepting the writ petition of respondent no. to declared the appointment of petitioner as void and without lawful authority and also directed the department to fill up the vacant post of assistant engineer afresh after fulfilling the legal requirements and codal formalities under the relevant rules. the facts, in brief, leading to the present petition are that the petitioner who is b.sc engineer on work charge basis at a fixed pay of rs. per month for a period of six months vide office -- and later on, on creation of regular post of assistant engineer, the petitioner was adjusted against vacant post as an assistant engineer in bps on regular basis vide office --. the respondent who are also diploma holders were appointed as sub engineer bps -, in in than napwd and until filing of writ petition they served as such without any promotion and on creation of a post of assistant engineer, bps-, in the year the official respondents, without considering the cases of respondent no. to for pr omotion under relevant service rules, directly appointed adjusted the petitioner as assistant engineer in bps -. the respondent no. to having been aggrieved with the direct appointment order of petitioner against the vacant post of assistant engin eer, filed a writ petition in the chief court, gilgit baltistan, and the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan, after hearing both the parties accepted the writ petition and declared the appointment of petitioner as illegal and against relevant service rules. leave was granted by this court vide --, to consider whether the post in dispute was quota promotion or direct recruitment as per rules and whether the writ petition was maintainable in a service matter. we have heard the learned ounsel for the parties learned counsel for petitioner vehemently contended that the writ petition pertaining to service matter wa not maintainable and the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan, has illegally exercised its jurisdiction ves ted under section of (empowerment self governance) order that during pendency of writ petition in chief court, gilgit -baltistan, the page respondent were promoted as assistant engineer and their main grievance was redressed as such the writ petiti on having become in-fructuous was liable to be dismissed. he further added that the case of petitioner does not pertain to a new appointment or promotion but it is purely adjustment case as he was already serving in the department as assistant engineer on work charge basis for the last years in running pay scale. the learned advocate general also relied upon the arguments of counsel for petitioner. on the other hand, the leaned counsel for respondent malik shafqat wali and shoukat ali senior advocates this court, appearing for respondent no. to controverted the above submission of learned counsel for petitioner and submitted that according to service rules framed by competent authority i.e. the then ministry of kashmir affairs and northern areas, the criteria for promotion to the post of assistant engineer bps -, was years experience as sub engineer in bps and the present post was meant for by promotion as such the respondent no. to having fulfilled the required qualification for promotion were eligible entitled for promotion to the post of assistant engineer, bps-. they submitted that where a cadre has definite quota reserved for departmental promotions and direct recruitment, promotion against the departmental quota is required to be made in preference to direct recruitment, that the official respondent in utter disregard of service rules have promoted the petitioner as assistant engineer, bps -, in violation of rights of promotion of respondents, the next limb of their argume nts is that the petitioner who is a blue eyed person of some influential officers of department, has from the very beginning of his appointment as work charge employee has been treated by department in a special manner, the petitioner was appointed on work charge basis in the year and on creation of post of assistant engineer, was directly appointed as in bps -, on regular basis in utter disregard of relevant rules and in -violation of precious right of respondent no. to as the respondent had a legitimate expectancy to be considered for their promotion on availability or creation of post posts in higher grade. page they further went on saying that on the representation of respondent no. to the secretary works on --, had withdrawn his ea rlier orders but later on vide -- the same order was cancelled and the appointment adjustment order infavour of petitioner in bps -, was maintained without assigning any reason, added that since all actions of respondent no. to were in violation of fundamental and statutory rights of private respondent as such the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan, had rightly declared the said order as illegal in exercise of its jurisdiction under article of (empowerment self governanc e) order we have also examined the relevant record with the able assistance of the learned counsel for both the parties and have also gone through the relevant service rules and judgment the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan. from per usal of record it transpires that the petitioner was appointed as work charge employee in the year for a fixed period of six months at a fixed pay of rs. vide office --. according to office order no. wc dat ed --, the petitioner was re -appointed as work charge employee for a period of six months by secretary works, napwd. the secretary works vide --, appointed the petitioner in bps -, as assistant engineer (work charge) against mw naltar, hydro electric power project, in a fixed pay. on --, a vacant post of accounts officer, bps in mw, naltar power project, was converted into the post of assistant engineer, bps and the petitioner was appointed adjusted against the regular post of assistant engineer, bps-. the change of nomenclature of post of accounts officer into the post of assistant engineer, bps and appointment of petitioner against the same post on --, i.e. on the same day when the post of acc ounts officer, was converted into assistant engineer, annoyed the respondent no. to who were waiting for their promotion since along, filed the writ petition before the chief court. perusal of the record would show that the respondent no. to rior to invoking the writ jurisdiction of chief court, filed page departmental representation before the secretary works, who vide --, withdrew his earlier -- but in a subsequent stage, he while maintaining his earlier --, cancelled the --, on --. however the respondent before making any representation to the concerned quarter against -- filed writ petition in the chief court, gilgit -baltistan. we have also gone through the rules framed by ministry of kashmir affairs and northern areas duly published in gazette of pakistan vide notification dated --, which are placed on page of case file. according to these rules the method of appointment for the post of assistant engineer, bps -, is by promotion from amongst the sub engineer bps -, alongwith years experience in the relevant field and to fill up a post meant for promotion or selection no advertisement etc. is required. however recomme ndations of departmental promotion or selection committee are to be considered for promotion of eligible incumbents. be that as it may, during the course of arguments it was pointed out that the respondent no. to have also been promoted by the depar tment, the learned counsel for respondent no. to when confronted, frankly conceded this fact and promotion to the higher rank was one of relief sought by the respondent in their writ petition. it is pertinent to mention here that the respondent no. to without seeking redressal of their grievances from the proper forum directly invoked the writ jurisdiction of learned chief court, gilgit baltistan and the learned chief court, allowed their writ petition and granted the relief as prayed for. writ jurisdiction is an extra ordinary jurisdiction which can be exercised in special circumstances, where no other remedy is available to the petitioner otherwise the court can decline to press into service its writ jurisdiction. in the present case the pet itioner without availing the opportunity to approach the concerned authorities forum have voiced their grievance through writ jurisdiction of the learned chief court and the leaned chief court, without examining the crucial point regarding maintainability of the writ granted relief in favour of the writ petitioner. the learned page chief court ought to have dismissed the writ petition on account of non-availability in the prevailing circumstances. for what has been discussed above, we find no substance in the a rguments of learned counsel for respondent regarding maintainability of writ, resultantly this appeal is allowed and the impugned judgment is set aside, the respondent no. to may file appeal representation before the chief secretary, gilgit baltista n, for redressal of their grievances, if so advised and the chief secretary shall dispose of the matter on merits within a reasonable time. parties shall bear their own cost. appeal allowed chief