page in the supreme appellate court, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit (original jurisdiction) smc no. case: in respect of prince saleem khan, member, gbla hnr -iii, gilgit -baltistan legislative assembly only. petition no. abaidullah baig hafizullah baig khomer, tehsil and district giglit. petitioner prince saleem khan mir ghazanfar ali khan kareem abad tehsil aliabad, district hunza others. respondent present: -baltistan legislative assembly. contesting candidate gbla hunza -iii. abid raza election commissioner gilgit -baltistan for chief elect ion commissioner gilgit -baltistan learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the provincial government. the javaid akhtar, deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit. date of hearing: .. date of judgment: .. judgment dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj: the leave to appeal filed by the national bank of pakistan through manager sost branch, hunza -nagar against silk route dry port trust ost gojal through chairman, prince saleem khan mir ghazanfar ali khan, raja shahbaz khan gojal district hunza and barkat ullah baig gojal district hunza against a .., the division bench of chief court in case cfa no. leave in this case was granted on ... upon hearing, the appeal was allowed page vide ... at the time of passing judgment, this court took a suo moto otice under article read with article of the gilgit -baltistan (emp owerment and self -governance) order, that prince saleem khan at the time of filing his nomination papers to contest election for a member gbla hnr-iii, was judgment debtor defaulter. he is still a judgment debtor defaulter after passing of the judg ment of this court and how he was allowed to contest election. consequently, the chief election commission er of gilgit -baltistan was directed to submit report alongwith the material on record regarding prince saleem khan. in compliance with the order of th is court, the learned chief election commissioner gilgit -baltistan submitted the report alongwith the judgment the two members of the election tribunal by giving divergent views. on account of divergence of opinion of two learned members of the election tribunal, the chief election commissioner in pursuance of section of the representation of people act, held that since, the appeal has not been disposed of within the period prescribed in the election schedule, the same is deemed to have be en rejected. consequently, prince saleem khan was held eligible to contest bye -election on the strength of stay order granted by the learned chief court. the learned chief election commissioner annou nced the election schedule for ye-election in gbla hnr -iii and directed that the bye-electio is to be held on ... he nomination papers to contest election by prince saleem khan were accepted on .. on the strength of purportedly stay .. granted by the learne chief court gilgit -baltistan in civil first a ppeal no. the bye -election in gbla hnr -iii was page held on the scheduled date and prince sale em khan was declared successful as returned candidate. subsequently, col, abaidu llah baig also filed petition, challeng ing the election of returned candidate prince saleem khan, which was converted into petition under article of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self -governance) order, has also challenged the election of prince sal eem khan as returned candidate which was also heard toge ther with this petition. on .. this court raised following questions to be answered by the counsel of prince saleem khan, chief election commissioner and chief law officer of the province and eputy attorney general for pakistan. i. whether prince saleem khan was qualified to contest the election of gbla hnr -iii as provided under sub section (c) (f) of section read with section (s) of the representation of people act, read with article and of the constitution of islamic republic of pakistan ii. whether the chief election commissioner gilgit baltistan was empowered to hold the election after a divergent views taken by the leaned members of the election tribunal instead of referrin the case to a referee judge? iii. whether the chief election commissioner gilgit baltistan was empowered to holding election by presuming that the appeal has not been disposed off by the tribunal within a specific period and deemed to be rejected as provided under sub section of section of the representation of people act, iv. whether the election of prince saleem khan as member gbla hnr -iii was held contested in accordance with law and without lawful authority? page the case was hear on .. and the judgment was reserved. we have heard learned counsel for respondent prince saleem khan, member gilgit -baltistan legislative assembly, abid raza election commissioner gilgit -baltistan or chief election commissioner gilgit -baltistan, learned advocate general of the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan, abaidullah aig contesting candidate in gbla hnr -iii and pa rty in petition no. at length. on the day of accepting his nomination papers, as the judgment decree passed against him dated .. was not suspended. the operation of impugned judgment the learned chief court was suspended by this court vide ... he also contends that although he has not challenged the order of the election tribunal in any other forum as yet, as he believes that the judgment and decree passed against prince saleem khan others was never challenged by returned candidate prince saleem khan which holds field. he submits that the returned candidate prince saleem khan filed civil miscellaneous no. which was filed after delay of months, only praying therein that his right of defense may be restored. he never challenged the judgment decree dated .. in the appellate court under the financial institutions (recovery of finance) ordinanc e, he submits that the said miscellaneous no. was dismissed being hopelessly time bared by months. he page submits that instead of challenging judgment and decree, prince saleem khan filed civil first appeal no. against the order passe in civil miscellaneous no. it is sho cking to observe that at the time of entertaining appeal, the office of the chief court gilgit -baltistan has not raised any objection that the civil misc no. was hopelessly time bared. no supportive application for condonation of delay under the limitation act was ever filed and the division bench of learned chief court closed their eyes and entertained the appeal and was allowed. the learned chief court instead of deciding the case in hand for restor ation of the right of defense as prayed by prince saleem khan, have decided the appeal and set aside the judgment and decree dated .. the banking court. admittedly, no anking appeal under the financial institutions (recovery of finance) ordinance, was ever filed challenging the judgment decree dated .. passed against prince saleem kha and others. i is also very painfu to note that while set ting aside the judgment and decree .., the learned chief ourt has closed their eyes that no banking appeal under section of the financial institutions (recovery of finance) ordinance, was ever filed by prince saleem khan and if, it is considered that it was an appeal, it was hopelessly time bared for abo ut years months and days. such ignorance of law of the division bench of the learned chief court was not understandable. titled muhammad shareef v. aftab haider and others and a case titled rasheed v. returning officer nankana sa hib reported as (pld lah ). page (c) of the representation of people act, as well as he was not disqualified under article and of the constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan, at the time of filing his nomination papers to contest election gbla hnr -iii. he further submits that the learned chief election commissioner has rightly ordered for holding election in pursuance of section of the representation of people act, that in case of divergent views of two judges of election tribuna l, it would be considered that the appeal has not been disposed of within the period specified in sub -section of section of the representation of people act, and shall be deemed to have been rejected. he further submits that on the day of filing of nomination paper and scrutiny, the retuning officer has rightly accepted his nomination papers on the strength of stay orders dated .. passe by the learned chief court. he further contends that the chief election commissioner was the lawful au thority to announce election schedule and bye -election was also rightly announced and held on ... after the election and counting of votes, prince saleem khan was declared successful as returned candidate. he relied upon the case of the federatio of pakistan and others v. mian muhammad nawaz shareef and others (pld sc and submits that in the said case, there was a divergent view of two members of the election tribunal and the then chief election commissioner of pakistan, in pursuance sub-section of section of the repre sentation of people act, he ld lawful election. he submits that ince, the appeal has not been disposed of within specific period, it page shall be deemed to have been rejected. the said order was challenged in a writ etition in the learned high court lahore, who, agreed with the views of learned chief election commissioner of pakistan which was, subsequently, upheld by the supreme court of pakistan. owever, the review petition was allowed and mian muhammad nawaz sharif was allowed to contest the election. he concluded his arguments that neither prince saleem khan was a judgment debtor defaulter and his nomination papers were rightly accepted on the strength of stay .. the learned chief court. consequently, he was rightly elected on the strength of votes in his favour and he was declared successful returned candidate as member of gbla hnr -iii. learned counsel for the chief election commissioner, learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan and lea rned deputy attorney general adopted the ar guments of learned counsel for prince saleem khan. we have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties, perused the mater ial on record, gone through the judgment decree dated .. passed in suit no. by the banking court, .. passed in cm no. impugned .. passed in cfa no. .. granting status quo on the str ength of which nomination paper of prince saleem khan were accepted to contest election of gbla hnr -iii and the case law relied upon by the learned counsel for prince saleem khan which is not applicable being distinguishable as every case is to be heard and decided in its own merits. as per judgment decree dated .. passed in suit no. by the learned banking court, whereby, five defendant page including prince saleem khan were declared as judgment debtor consequently, the banking prince saleem khan was aware about the proceedings in the banking court against him since its institution i.e. in the year till the judgment decree passed against him on ... prince saleem khan has ever filed bank ing appeal in the appellate court against the judgment decree dated .. the banking court. instead, he filed cma after the de lay of months, praying therein for the restoration of his defense by se tting aside the ex-parte decree dated .. the banking court in civil suit no. learned banking court was pleased to observe that the above application was filed after the delay of month after passing the judgment and decree. consequently, the petition was dismissed vide .. being hopelessly time bared. prince saleem khan, silk route, mir ghazanfar ali khan, raja shahbaz khan and barkat ullah baig instead of filing banking appeal under section of the financial institutions (recovery of finance) ordinance, within days, filed first civil appeal no. on .. in the chief court gilgit -baltistan. it is sho cking to observe that the appeal was entertained without any objection although it was filed after the delay of years, months and days. no application for condonation of delay was ever filed by prince saleem khan and other judgment debtors. such unexplained delay was not mentioned anywhere while entertaining the appeal, or even du ring the hearing of said appeal, and subsequently, at the time of passing of impugned .. which is unprecedented in judicial history of the world. we have also gone through the said order page dated .., the learned division bench irected only that the status quo existing be maintained till then. admittedly, the operation of the impugned judgment decree dated .. was never suspended which holds field. we are fortified by the judgments of indian jurisdiction reported as air sc air gauhati and air karnataka regarding granting of status quo. in air sc the according to the ordinary legal connotation, the term status quo applies the existing status of things at any given point of time. in air gauhati the it only imposes restriction on making any physical change in the premises such as demolition and alteration. therefore, issuing lawyer notice requiring ten ants of the premises to pay rents and termination of tenancy was not disobedience of order granting injunction. even so, injunction restraining entering and interfering in peaceful possession of the plaintiff in air karnataka the the court while making the order to maintain the status quo, should endeavor to clarify the condition in the context of which or subject to which uch directions are issued, as the word status quo takes contextual meaning and may give roam for several difficult interpretatio ns. an order of status quo is a page specie of interim order s, when granted indiscriminately and without qualifications or condition, leads to ambiguity, leads to difficulties and injustice. i court wants to give interim relief, they shoul endeavor to give specific injun ctive relief. if grant of order of status quo is found to be the only appropriate relief, then court should indica te the nature of status quo, that is whether the status quo is in regard to possession, title, nature of property or some other aspect. merely, saying status quo or status quo to be maintained should be avoided. in pursuance of the above observation of the higher court of indian jurisdiction, status quo means the things at the time of grant of status quo must remain or exist as it is. if we take the case of prince saleem khan that on .., he was judgment debtor and declared defaulter or otherw ise. since, the impugned judgment .. was non-existent, he was not qualified to contest the election on the basis of such status quo. the decree judgment the banking court was never suspended rather status quo was granted which means that on the day of grant ing status quo prince saleem khan was judgment debtor defaulter. he existing position status quo be considered without re straining order and different from granting interim injunction stay order. the order the ch ief election commissioner for allowing to contest election on the strength of impugned status quo is not tenable in law. the day i.e. .., prince saleem khan was declared qualified, he was admittedly a judgment debtor defaulter and cannot contest bye-election of gbla hnr-iii. the impugned .. the chief court was suspended by this court vide .. consequently, the appeal filed by the national bank of pakistan through page manager sost branch, hunza naga against prince saleem khan others was allowed. he office of the election commission has not taken notice of .. and .. this court and kept their eyes closed for the reasons best known to them. should have refrained to sit as member of the election tribunal. we have also gone through impugned judgment the learned chief court and also judgment decree the learned banking court and we, with pain, observe that the learned chief court should not have entertained, the admittedly years, months and days) time bared appeal, filed by the sost dry port etc including prince saleem khan. it should had been dis missed on account of hopelessly time barred only specially when no application for condonation of delay was filed with the appeal. the plea of petitioner abaidullah baig that after disqualifying prince saleem khan being judgment debtor defaulter on the day of filing nomination papers, he be declared as returned candidate, is also not tenable, as there is no allegation of rigging etc. prince saleem khan returned candidate and hence, the voters of the con stituency gbla hnr-iii cannot be deprived to elect the member of gilgit -baltistan legislative assembly of their own choice. in view of above discussion, a judgment debtor defaulter cannot contest election and we declare and hold that the bye -election held on .. in gbla hnr -iii were ab initio void, illegal and have been held without lawful authority, hence, is set aside. the office of page chief election commissioner is directed to de -notify prince saleem khan as member gilgit -baltistan legislative as sembly from the gbla hnr iii forthwith. the chief election commissioner gilgit -baltistan is also directed to announce election chedule of bye -election gbla hnr iii within two weeks for holding bye -election of gbla hnr -iii within prescribed time in accordance with law. announce in open court. chief