page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. criminal appeal no. in cr. pla no. isfandiar petitioner. the state respondent. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the respondent. date of hearing: ... order. this criminal petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in criminal revision no. the learned chief court whereby the said criminal revision was dismissed holding the same as baseless, groundless and malafidy on the part of the petitioner. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case was heard today. briefly the facts of the case are that the petitioner was booked in case fir no. under sections and ppc. consequently, investigation has been initiated by the state against the petitioner. the petitioner moved a bail before page arrest vide petition no. before the then learned vacation sessions upon hearing interim bail was allowed which was subsequently confirmed. the respondent being aggrieved filed criminal misc. no. before the learned chief court but later on the same was withdrawn by the respondent. consequently, the same was disposed off vide .. by the learned chief court. meanwhile the challan of the case was submitted before the committal magistrate chilas who forwarded the same to the then sessions upon hearing the le arned sessions bailable warrants of arrest for production of the petitioner by cancelling the pre -arrest bail facility so granted to the petitioner in circumstances. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed criminal evision no. before the learned chief court which upon hearing was dismissed vide impugned ... earlier the learned chief court vide .. dismissed this non -prosecution. consequently, the criminal mi sc. no. was also filed by the petitioner for restoration of the same which was also dismissed vide ... the petitioner also filed another criminal misc. which upon hearing was also dismissed vide ... the petitioner being aggrieved assailed the said order of the learned chief court before this court by filling cr. pla no. which upon hearing was allowed vide .. with the direction that the revision petition be considered as pe nding before page the learned chief court and the same be heard and decided expeditiously on its own merit. the learned chief court in pursuance of the .. of this court heard and decided the criminal revision no. vide impugned .. wherein the petition of the petitioner was dismissed. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that after granting bail by the learned vacation sessions .., the same can not be cancelled unless the petitioner misused it. per learned counsel on .. upon submission of challan of the said case, the learned sessions court district diamer has wrongly observed that the bail to the petitioner was granted by the learned judicial magistrate chilas which is without jurisdiction as section ppc is triable by the court of sessions judge. he reiterates that the bail was granted by the learned vacation sessions hence, the same was no tenable. consequently, the petitioner filed cr. revision no. which upon hearing was dismissed vide .. declaring the same baseless, groundless and based on malafidies on the part of etitioner. per learned counsel for the petitioner the impugned .. is not sustainable being the result of misconception of law and misreading non reading of the facts of the case whereas the .. in b.a no. pass ed by the learned page vacations sessions gilgit is well reasoned and well founded. he prays that the impugned .. may graciously be set aside and the .. in b.a no. the learned vacations sessions gilgit be maintained. on the other hand, the learned advocate general supports the impugned .. the learned chief court which according to him is well reasoned and well founded. he contends that the petitioner has willfully avoide to appear in the learned trial court so he is not entitled for the concession of bail which has rightly been cancelled by the learned sessions court diamer and the same was upheld by the learned chief court. he prays that the impugned .. in cr. revision no. the learned chief court may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned chief court as well as the orders of the learned courts below. in our considered view the .. in b.a no. the learned vacations sessions gilgit is well reasoned and well founded. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. in criminal revision no. page the learned chief court and the .. the lea rned sessions are set aside. the order date .. in petition no. the learned vacation sessions the bail concession extended to the petitioner shall remain intact as granted by the learned district sessions the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.