page northern areas supreme appellate court s.m.c. no. of jail reforms in gilgit -baltistan present: c.. (r) usman younis, home secretary gilgit -baltistan. sabtain, deputy secretary home, gilgit -baltistan. deputy advocate general for gilgit -baltistan. 19th november, order in pursuance of the order of this court learned district and session judges in gilgit baltistan have submitted reports on the condi tion of jails in their respective districts. the home secretary, government of gilgit baltistan has also submitted report that in consequence to the order of this court, fetters put on the convicts and under trial prisoners by the jail authorities have bee removed and necessary instructions have also been issued for providing the facilities of medical officer, construction of bathrooms and establishment of cafeteria, supply of clothing, bedding and uniform in all jails on urgent basis. the report further reveals that deputy commissioners of all the districts holding the charge of superintendent jails have been directed for regular visit to jails and that prisoners are also being provided the facility of education through allama iqbal open universi ty, islamabad and ngos. capt. (r) usman younis, home secretary, gilgit -baltistan assisted by deputy secretary home present in person informed the court that central jail gilgit -baltistan is under construction in manowre and this jail will ha ve all the facilities of a modern jail. the xen gilgit present in court has informed us that the construction of central jail has already been approved with allocation of funds and work of levelling the ground for construction of building is in progre ss. according to him contract of building has been awarded and the work order for the construction of project of first phase will be issued within two thrcc months to the contractor. the home secretary at this stage has given assurance to the page court that u ntil the central jail is constructed the condition of existing jails in gilgit -baltistan will be improved reasonably with the provision of all necessary facilities. the perusal of reports of the learned district and sessions judges would show that even ba sic needs of life are not available to the prisoners so much so they are not being provided the facility of medical checkup and aid in emergency due to the non -availability of transport and for the same reason the prisoners are not brought to the courts in time as a result of which delay is caused in their trials. the home secretary has given assurance for providing transport on priority to jail authorities to avoid delay in the trial of the prisoners and to shift them to hospital for medical aid in case of need. the reports of learned district and sessions judges would also show that jail administration has no concept of right of prisoners as human being and controlling authorities in the government are also least bothered about the problems of prisoners. the non -observance of the instructions contained i jail manual and prison rules in respect of the right and facilities to be provided to prisoners is not only violation of human rights but also is a grave legal and constitutional violation. the prisoners are human being and subject to law are entitled to the fair and equal treatment in respect of their rights as citizens under the law and constitution. consequently for improvement of poor condition and reformation of jails we direct: (i) the district and sessions judges and deputy commissioner of all di stricts in gilgit -baltistan will pay regular monthly visit to the jails and issue necessary instructions in the complaints the prisoners. the district and sessions (ii) the trial of under trial prisoners in detention must be conducted on priority to avoid delay and the district and sessions judges should ensure that trials on commencement must proceed day to day withou grant of unnecessary or long adjournments. the trial of accused under detention should be concluded within two months from the date of submission of challan. (iii) the districts and sessions judges will ensure that challans in the cases are filed withi statutory period and in case of delay, the concerned police officials must explain the good reason for delay otherwise face the consequence of appropriate legal action. (iv) the inspector general of police, government of gilgit page baltistan shall issue in structions to all district police officers that the challan must be submitted within the period prescribed under the law and if the above instruction is not strictly followed, he should proceed against the concerned officials for. negligence and inefficien cy. (v) the cases of under trial prisoners "on bail and civil matters may not be given priority over the cases of prisoners in detention. (vi) the district and sessions judges will submit monthly report regarding their visit to the jail and th progress in criminal trial to the registrar of chief court under intimation to the registrar of this court. (vii) jail reforms committees in each distri ct of gilgit baltistan arc constituted under the supervision of district and sessions judges which will be headed by president of district bar association of each district as chairman with two members of bar association to be nominated by the district and sessions judge. the committee in gilgit will be headed by the president chief court bar association and president district bar association will be the member of committee. these committees may visit the jails alongwith the district and sessions judges or independently as the case may and may send recommendations through district and sessions judges to the home secretary and law secretary along with the complaints of prisoners for reformation under intimation to the registrar of this court. the jail auth orities may provide access to the ngos and media to meet the prisoners in company of jail reforms committee. (viii) the construction of central jail on completion of ground levelling work must be started forthwith and the chief secretary in consultation with secretary home and secretary works will constitute a committee for supervision of the work and will ensure that on technical or financial excuse the construction of jail is not struck up. the chief engineer and xen division who are present in cour are directed to submit progress report of the project regularly to the chief secretary under intimation to the registrar of this court. (ix) this has been noticed that there is no regular jail establishment in jail as per requirement of jail manual jai rules which are also not being followed by jail administration in accordance with the spirit of law. the chief secretary will take necessary steps for regular establishment of jail staff administration and for page implementation of jail manual rules in letter and spirit as a basic requirement for reformation. this has been noticed that pwd division in gilgit -baltistan usually provides facility of advance money to the contractors in the name of mobilization adva nce and contractors without doing any work unnecessary delay the projects. this practice being against the public interest and exchequer must not be continued in routine or as an essential obligation of department and must be discouraged. the copy of thi order along with the copies of the reports of learned district and sessions judges shall be sent to the home secretary and chief secretary for action on jail reformation on long and short terms and will also be circulated to the learned district and sess ions judges and the jail reforms committees for implementation. the learned district and sessions judges and jail reforms committees will submit progress report before the next date to be fixed on reopening of the court after winter vacations in march, chief