page in the supreme appellate cout gilgit-baltistan cr. misc. application no. jamshid ali sp crime branch.c.p.o. and others. petitioner chief secretary gilgit-baltistan others. respondent .o.r -- petitioner preferred a review petition under order rule of supreme appellate court rules whereby the petitioner challenged the interim order the division bench of this court dated --, on the ground that the impugned order along with letter dated -- written by i.g.p. gilgit-baltistan, to the chief secretary gilgit-baltistan, recommending anti date promotion of .s.p. with effect form --, may kindly be set aside, as the said letter has been issued without any justification and law full grounds. after perusal of the review petition, the registrar of this court has taken legal objections vide -- with the direction, to remove the deficiencies objections and be submitted the same within three days. replication received through aor on --, wherein they have tried to their best to remove the legal objections raised by the registrar of this court. the reply submitted by a.o.r. is not consonant within the parameters of objections raised by the office. therefore, the registrar asked to the party to prefer an appeal, if aggrieved from the objections raised under the supreme appellate court rules resultantly they preferred an appeal under order sub rule of supreme appellate court, rules, the same appeal has been entrusted to this chamber by his lordship muhammad nawaz abbasi, chief judge, for hearing and disposal. arguments heard at length. i have anxiously considered the respective arguments of the learned counsel for petitioner and have examined the record, appended herewith. undeniable, i came to the conclusion, that the appeal preferred by the applicants against the legal objections raised by the registrar of this court is not maintainable, hence liable to be rejected on the following grounds:- page i)the contempt petition which is subjudice for adjudication, is a matter between the court and contemnor, third party would not intervence in the contempt petition. moreover, the impugned order division bench of this court is purely interlocutory in nature and not the final one. the review petition filed by the petitioner against the order ins competent until and unless it can attain finality and affect the precious rights of any aggrieved party. ii)that when i visited the order of this court dated --, it is crystal clear and un-ambiguous which clearly transpires that without prejudice to the rights of any person the case of the petitioner may be considered in accordance with law. the apprehension of the petitioner at this stage is pre-mature one. the second and most important legal point is that the petitioner are not the party in the contempt proceedings before this court and they are not competent to file the instant petition. however, if they aggrieved from the order competent authority in pursuance of this court --, the said party may avail remedy as provided under the law before the competent forum. what has been discussed above, this appeal has no merit in it and is accordingly dismissed. file be consigned to record. announced -- judge