page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge, in chamber. cpla no. kamal hussain others petitioners. shabbir ahmed others respondents. petit ion for leave to appeal under order xiii of supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan rules read with article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance order against the -- the division bench of chief ourt gb. present: advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith secretary law gb. malik shafqat wali, sr. advocate alongwith advocate for the petitioners. registrar, chief court, gb. deputy attorney general for pakistan at gb. date of hearing: --. order dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj the learned counsel for the petitioner contends that there is no infirmity and illegality in the judgment the learned division bench of chief court, gilgit -baltistan in writ petition no. dated .. which is ased in accordance of the facts, circumstances and procedure to appoint the judges in various high courts of the provinces of pakistan. the learned advocate general, gil git-baltistan alongwith secretary law, gilgit baltistan contends that since the government of gilgit -baltistan issued gazzet sro no. page () in exercise of power conferred by article of the gilgit baltistan (empowerment self govern ance) order, the chief judge, chief court with the approval of governor gilgit -baltistan amended in section and of the gilgit -baltistan judicial service rule, the same notification is reproduced as under: preamble.__ whereas it is expe dient further to amend the gilgit -baltistan judicial service rules, for the purposes hereinafter appearing. it is enacted as follows short title and commencement. --- () these rules may be called the gilgit -baltistan (amendment) judicial service rules, () they shall come into force at once. substitution of sub section () and () (a). in section sub -section () ()(a), the following shall be substituted namely. () in case of initial recruitment as civil judge -cum- judicial magistrate if he i less than twenty -two years more than thirty -five years of age. the maximum age limit would be thirty five () years. (c) in case of government servant who has served in connection with the affairs of the federal or the gilgit baltistan government or in any other department function in gilgit -baltistan for a period not less than years, the upper age limit shall be thirty seven years years). no relaxation in upper age limit would be allowed, including the (relaxation of upper age limit) rules in a ny case. explanation. --- in section at the end of ex planation, the following shall be inserted and assistant registrar substitution of section of the gi lgit-baltistan judicial service rules in section the following shall be substit uted namely: --- the chief if the chief mumtaz ahmed registrar in view of the above, this petition become infructous, the .. is hereby recalled. advocate for the petitioner contends that the applicants who applied page for the post of civil -cum-judicial magistrate their maximum age be calculated from the date of filing of their application for such posts. the contentions raised by the learned counsel for both the petitioner and respondent are genuine and the same are in accordance with law, hence, the same is a llowed. the learned registrar chief court gilgit -baltistan is also present in the court. he is directed to implement the order of this court in its letters and spirits and the vacant post be filled in at the earliest. the process of examination of its result and test interview thereto be completed expeditiously, so that the successful candidates on merit be selected and appointed as civil judges -cum-magistrates accordingly. the petition in hand is accordingly disposed of. chief judge.