page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. civil appeal no. in cpla. no. khali -ur-rehman others petitioners. provincial govt. others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... order. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that a compensation was filed by the petitioner on acquiring their cultivated land by the provincial government. he submits that the learned collector passed award rs. (rupees thirty thousand only) per kanal whereas, the prevailing rate at th at time of the said land area was (rupees one lac seventy two thousand only) per kanal. the land acquisition was filed in the learned chief court. per learned counsel during the pendency of the said appeal some of the petitioner were died and the learned chief court has directed to file the list of the legal heirs of the petitioner in order to implead them accordingly. he further submits that during the process of impleadin of the legal heirs, the case was fixed for hearing in the learned chief court. per learned counsel on the day of hearing i.e. .. learned counsel was page busy in this court due to his pre occupation in this court he could not attend the hearing in the learned chief court. consequently, the case in the learned chief court was dismissed vide impugned .. in cfa no. by holding that the appeal was devoid of any merit. per learned counsel that the petitioner were condemned unh eard. the learned advocate general present in court waves notice and has not controverted the contentions raised by the learned counsel for the petitioners, therefore, we convert this petition into an appeal the same is allowed. the matter is reman ded back to the learned chief court to hear afresh and decide the same in its own merits after impleading the legal heirs of the petitioner in accordance with law without being influenced any of the observation(s) earlier made by the learned chief court i tself or by this court. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.