page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. liaqat ali son jaffar ali chongrah tehsil district astore petitioner. provincial government others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. the advocate genera for provincial government gilgit -baltistan. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the civil revision no. filed by the respondent was disposed off by setting aside the impugned .. the learned senior civil the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the instant proceedings are that the petitioner filed civil suit no. in the learned court of page vacation .. the petitioner is entitled to run medical store in dhq hospital astore till the construction completion of -bedded hospital at astore. later on, the respondent called tender vide notice dated .. for establishment of medical store at dhq hospital astore before completion of the construction of -bedded hospital. an application under order rule read with section cpc has also been filed by the petitioner for tem porary injunction restraining the respondent to eject the petitioner from the disputed medical store. during hearing of the said suit the parties were directed to maintain status quo which remained intact till ... on .. the learned presidi ng officer was on leave, therefore, the case was adjou rned by the reader of the court. status quo was not mentioned to be extended till next date or otherwise? the respondent taking the benefits of the same ejected the petitioner from the premises. upon earing, the learned trial court allowed the petition vide .. with the observation that the status quo was in filed and the petitioner shall be put in same position. the respondent being aggrieved filed civil revision no. in th learned chief court instead of filing civil first appeal in the learned district court astore. the learned chief court upon hearing allowed the said revision petition of the respondent vide impugned ... page the learned counsel for th petitioner at the very outset submits that the impugned order is not sustainable as the forum of learned first appellate court has not been exhausted by the respondent and they have wrongly rushed to the learned revisional court. per learned counsel, th impugned order is liable to be set aside being illegal and without jurisdiction. on the other hand, the learned advocate general gilgit baltistan supports the impugned order the learned chief court. he, however, could not present any argum ents in support of his contentions. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned order. in our considered view, the impugned order has been passed without jurisdi ction, hence, the same is not tenable. in view of the above discussions, we allow this appeal. consequently, the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court is set aside by maintaining the .. the learned senior civil the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?