page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. madham khan petitioner. brigade commander brigade mining others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. the deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for respondents. maj. husnain afzal sahi representative of brigade commanders. assistant commissioner, astore is present in court. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil revision filed by the petitioner was dismissed being meritless, hence, this leave to app eal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are the petitioner filed a civil suit no. in the court of learned civil astore against th respondent for declaration and permanent page injunction contending therein that they are in possession on the suit land from the life time of their forefathers. he has improved the land in question and planted trees on it. likewise, the petitioner also buil constructed shops while spending huge amount over the suit land. as per averments of the petitioner that on the basis of fake and factitious demarcation report, the respondent no. want to occupy the land in question of the petitioner. the respondent denied the averments of the petitioner who admitted in their written statement that the petitioner is in possession of land under khasra no. however, he has illegally occupied the land under khasra no. measuring kanal and marlas. the learned trial court upon hearing dismissed the suit of the petitioner vide .. which was upheld by the first appellate court as well as the learned chief court, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the disputed property is the ancestral property of petitioner and respondent no. he also submits that the petitioner and respondent no. were enjoying rights of ownership for the last sixty years. he adds that the trees planted by their forefathers are still intact in the said land. per learned counsel, the respondent no. with the connivance of the revenue authorities first encroached marla and marla of the land from the pet itioner and respondent no. respectively whereafter got it mutated in their names. he further submits that page the learned trial court, the first appellate court and the learned chief court have not considered this fact and not properly appraised the evidenc and other material on record while deciding the case(s) of the petitioner. the petitioner and respondent no. have been deprived from their legal rights of possession and inheritance. he reiterates that even if a person occupies government land for twenty () years who successfully proved proves such occupancy for twenty () years, he can not be disposed and deprived to claim occupancy rights on the said land. he submits that on the contrary, the petitioner and the respondent no. have legal ownership being of ancestral land for last sixty () years which has not been considered by the learned courts below at the time of delivering judgments decree which are not sustai nable. he prays that the concurrent findings of the learned three courts below may graciously be set aside to meet the ends of justice. on the other hand, the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit, the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan and major husnain sahi appearing on behalf of brigade commander support the concurrent findings of the learned three courts below. they contend that the learned courts below have rightly appreciated the evidence on record while passing the judgments decree which are sustainable. they pray that the concurrent findings of the learned three courts below may pleased by maintained being well reasoned and well founded. page we have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the concurrent findings of the learned three courts below. the learned chief court while concurring with the views taken by the first appellate court and the court of fi rst instance do not appear to have suffered from misreading on non -reading of evidence. further, the learned counsel for the petitioner also could not point out any infirmity or illegality in the well reasoned impugned order the learned chief cou rt, hence, interference into concurrent findings of the three courts below is not warranted by this court. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the concurrent findings of th learned three courts below are affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.