page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. manzoor hussain petitioner. government of gilgit -baltistan others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal whereby the service appeal no. filed by the petitio ner was dismissed in limini, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner was working as driver bps in the office of the secretary finance gilgit -baltistan as contingent employees later on the services of the petitioner were regularized on ... consequently, he got medically examined himself and reported for joining his services ut page his joining was not accepted on the ground of non -availability of permanent post. the petitioner being aggrieved filed service appeal no. in the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal which was dismissed in limini declaring the same as not aintainable. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner was appointed on a regular post by the respondent who refused to accept his joining malafidely. he submits that once an order was issued it can not be taken away by subseq uent administrative order. per learned counsel, the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal failed to understand the case of the petitioner while passing the impugned order, hence, the same is not tenable in law. on the other hand, the learned advoc ate general supports the impugned order the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. he contends that the adjustment order of the petitioner was issued by the respondent without completing codal formalities and the requisite service rules i.e. without advertisement, test and interview etc. he also contends that there was no vacant post in the finance department gilgit -baltistan and the petitioner was appointed against a non -existed post. admittedly, no departmental appeal was filed by the petit ioner before filing the service appeal in the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal which was mandatory in nature. he prays that the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal may graciously be maintained. page we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned order. admittedly, the petitioner was appointed non- existed post without fulfilling the requisite codal formalities by the respondents. no departmental appeal was filed before filing service appeal in gilgit -baltistan service tribunal, which is mandatory, the violation of it, is not condonable. further, the petitioner also filed writ petition no. in the learned hief court which upon hearing was disposed off by directing the petitioner to seek remedy from proper forum if so advised. in our considered view, the impugned order is well founded as no infirmity has been pointed out by the learned counsel for the petiti oner. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal is affirmed. the appeal is dismiss ed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not? page