page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at gilgit cr. misc. in cr.p.l.a. no. -ud-din, judge. judge. maqbool hussain son of mehboob ali resident of jutial gilgit. petitioner appellant convict. the state respondent complainant. charges under section p.p.c and of anti terrorism act vide f.i.r no. police station cantt gilgit. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order against the judgment conviction of petitioner dated -- chief court gilgit -baltistan in cr. misc. no. whereby the judgment conviction dated -- anti terrorism court gilgit has been upheld and maintained. present: advocate general on behalf of the respondent. advocate for the petitioners. date of hearing: --. judgment raja jalal -ud-din, .e. athar ahmad. this court referred the petition to the trial court to authenticate the patch -up compromise between the parties. page the trial court anti terrorist court, has sent his report to this court in which he has authenticate that the injured athar ahmad has forgiven maqbool hussain convict for the criminal act done. the trial court had also record the statement of athar ahmad alongwith the jirga members who have verified that a genuine compromise ha been effected between the parties outside the court. the jirga members have also certified that the compromise will be long lasting and in the best interest of the parties as well as the society. we have gone through the record of the case and seen that the accused aqbool hussain has been sentenced to impriso nment for years and the fine of rupees fifty thousand (rs. -) under section ppc read with section (c) of anti terrorism act for murderous assault and injuries to athar ahmad and again under section (d) ppc read with (c) anti terro rism act to pay arsh of rupees one hundred thousand rs. -) alongwith years imprisonment, thirdly the convict maqbool hussain petitioner is sentenced to imprisonment for years under section (d) arms ordinance all the sentences to run concurrently. the petitioner accused has also been given a benefit of (b). the petitioner was arrested on -- and has spent a period of four years and six months behind the bars. we accept the compromise as being genuine and effective and we acquit the accused from the charges under section ppc and of ata vide fir no. police station cantt gilgit. regarding the sentence under section arms ordinance we feel that there is not sufficient evidence on the fac of the record to page prove the said charge against the convict appellant. he is acquitted from the charge under section arms ordinance for insufficient evidence. the petitioner maqbool hussain is acquitted from the charge under section ppc anti te rrorism act and a rms ordinance vide f.i.r. no. and police station airport gilgit. the petitioner is acquitted from above mentioned charges and shall be released forthwith if not required in any other case. the case is disposed off ac cordingly. announced: --.