page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla. no. mayal khan juma khan jutal tehsil gilgit. petitioner ghulam haider ghulam mehdi naib tehs ildar settlement officer gilgit and others. respondent present: mir akhlaq hussain, advocate for the petitioner. senior advocate on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing:- --. date of detail judgment: -.....--. judgment javed iqbal, j......... this leave to appeal has been directed against the judgment decree of concurrent findings of all three courts below. where all of three court below while reaching at same conclusion, have dismissed suit no. filed by petitioner. the brief back ground of the litigation as narrated by the parties are that, the petitioner has filed civil suit declaration of the title over the suit prop erty and taken a plea that, he is equally share of the suit land like the respondent defendant no. for reason that, the petitioner purchased the disputed land from joint -resources and were possession as co -sharer till petitioner was dislocated on page sectarian unrest being a shia sect from pari bangla and the petitioner resides in jutal. in absence petitioner, the respondent no. grabbed whole property and has alienated its major portion through sale to some other persons. besides this respondent efendants raising certain preliminary objection and deny the whole claim of petitioner defendant and contended that in joint -written statement respondent no. is exclusively owner of lands from his own means and resources, portion of the land was gifted respondent no. to the other respondents, and partly been sold out to other persons, remaining land are in possession of respondent as per their ownership. the learned trial merit dismissed the suit of petit ioner vide --. this judgment decree was called in question before learned district the learned district --, dismissed the appeal no. fe eling aggrieved by this judgment decree, the petitioner filed civil revision under section civil procedure code before learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. while reaching at same conclusion the single bench of learned chief court gilgit vide judgment decree dated --, hold that, learned courts below have returned their concurrent findings after proper appreciation of evidence, and not point out any mistake about misreading and non -reading of the evidence by the learned courts below and same be di smissed by single bench of learned chief court. we have minutely perused the record of the case, concurrent judgments of learned three courts below. we have heard learned counsel of the petitioner, as well as learned counsel of the respondents. the coun sel of the petitioner interalia contended that, page the suit property is joint property of petitioner and respondents, but in this regard we see no documentary evidence available on record file. on the other hand respondent counsel contended, that, concurren findings of three learned courts below are well reasoning. so in the above circumstances of the case and finding of three learned courts, which have given their detailed and exhaustive judgments after discussed the facts and law. we do not find any su ch reason to interfere and disturb the findings recorded by all three courts below. consequently we convert this petition into appeal and the same was dismissed vide our short --. the appeal is dismissed in above terms.