page the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. chief judge. judge. criminal. review no. in cr. appeal no. mehar ali petitioner. the state respondent. criminal. review no. in cr. appeal no. naseer -u-din petitioner. the state respondent. present: ehsan ali advocate and -on-record for the petitioner in both the review petitions. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the respondent in both the petitions. date of hearing: ... order. both the above review petitions have arisen out of the impugned .. in criminal appeals no. page and this court whereby the petitioner proclaimed offenders absconders namely mehar ali and naseer -ud-din were convicted under section -l of the anti terrorism act and sentenced them to undergo for ten () years imprisonment under sections -a and section haraba of the offence against property (hudood) ordinance read with -l and of the anti terrorism act, briefly the facts of the case as spelt out in fir no. registered as police station aliabad hunza are that the petitioner committed offence under sections -a and section haraba of the offence against property (hudood) ordinance read with -l and of the anti-terrorism act, after completing investigat ion, the challan of the case was submitted in the learned trial court. although the trial commenced concluded yet the above named petitioner accused remained in absconsion for a period of more than three () years and they were convicted in absentia. they, however, were arrested on .. .. respectively. the petitioner after their arrest filed a cr. miscellaneous no. cr. misc. no. under section () of the anti terrorism act, for setting aside the judgment convi ction .. passed in absentia. upon hearing, the said application were partially accepted to the extent of fresh trial vide its .. and .. respectively. consequently, page fresh trial against the petitioner were sta rted by the learned trial court which was pending adjudication. subsequently, a common impugned .. in criminal appeals no. was this court whereby the present petitioner namely mehar ali and naseer -ud-din were also convicted alongwith others. no appeal was filed by the state against them either in the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court or in this court against the .. the learned trial court. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the impugned .. filed the above cr. review petitions for setting aside the same in circumstances. this court vide .. issued notices to the state and respondent and the case was heard today. the learned counsel for the petitioner at the very outset contend that the petitioner were convicted and sentenced in absentia by the learned trial court against which no appeal was filed by the state in the learned chief court which was not contro verted by the learned advocate general. they also contend that petitioner were deprived from the right of the appeal and they were condemned unheard. they further submit that the petitioner were convicted by this apex court vide impugned common .. which is not tenable in law to the extent of the petitioner namely mehar ali and naseer -ud-din. per learned counsels the case of the said two petitioner was different from the others petitioner in the connected cases. they pray that page the cr. review petitions filed by them be allowed and the case be remanded to the learned trial court to hear decide afresh after recording of prosecution evidence. we have heard the learned counsels for the petitioner and the learned advocate general, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. passed in tc. by the learned trial court and the .. of this court respectively. the learned advocate general has no controverted the conviction raised by the learned counsels for the petitioners. in view of the above discussions and in our considered view, the review petitions filed by mehar ali and naseer -ud-din merit acceptance. consequently, we allow criminal eview no. in criminal appeal no. the convictions sentences awarded to petitioner namely mehar ali and naseer -ud-din by this court are set aside. the case against them be treated as pending adjudication in the learned tr ial court. accordingly the case against them is remanded back to the learned trial court who has to proceed with the case against them afresh, hear and decide the same in its own merit in accordance with law without being influenced by any of the observati on (s) earlier made either by the trial court itself, the gilgit -baltistan chief court or by this court. page these review petitions are allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.