page in the supreme appellate courtr gilgit baltistan, gilgit smc no (metalling of basin raod gilgit) advocate general gilgit -baltistan --. this direct petition under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, has been filed for taking notice in respect of dead project of the construction of road with bridges in basin area, the contract of which was awarded in to one was made to him and also another payment of about rs. was made after start of work but the contractor abandoned the project which is lying in the same condition for the last about five years. the executive engineer division gilgit vide latter dated 23rd september, has proposed for re -tendering of the contract in terms of the clause (c) of the contract. the xen and the chief engineer present in court have st ated that the cost of work done by the contractor was about rs. lac, therefore, an amount of rs. lac is recoverable from the contractor. the learned advocate general has submitted that rescinding of the contractor at this stage would amount to extend undue benefit to the contractor and cost of the contract will also be much more to the original cost due to increase in the prices in the meanwhile. he has proposed page that the leftover work of the project should be completed by the department in terms of cl ause (b) of the contract at the cost and risk of the contractor. the applicants have submitted that the proposal is workable and order may be passed accordingly. having considered the matter in the light of facts and figures provided by the department an the reason for abandoning the contract by the contractor, we direct the department while proceeding under clause (b) of the contract will complete the project during the current financial year at the cost and risk of the contractor. the chief engineer a nd the xen have pointed out that during the winter seasons metalling work cannot be carried out and consequently, we should suggest that remaining work of the road without metalling be completed during winter and completion of metalling work must be ensure before 30th june this is noticeable that in gilgit baltistan there is a common practice that contractors after getting contract either intentionally delay the execution of work with the purpose of escalation claim or for revise of the rates on the ground of increase in prices and also get mobilization advance without any work. this type of delay in the execution of work at the cost of extra burden on public exchequer and inconvenience of the public must be strongly discouraged. the chief secretary ilgit-baltistan will look into the matter and may also take appropriate action including the back -listing of the contractors who page have abandoned the contracts without any justification. the secretary works will revise the list approved contractors and retai the names of only those contractors on the list of approve contracts who have clean record. this petition with above observation direction stands disposed of. chief