page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. mir shakeel -ur-rehman petitioner. the state of gilgit -baltistan respondent. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. mst. shaista lodhi ali gohar others. petitioners. the state of gilgit -baltistan respondent. present: in cr. pla no. in cr.pla no. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on ehalf of the state of gilgit -baltistan in both the appeals. asadullah khan advocate and date of hearing: ... date of announcement of judgment:- ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... both the appeals have arisen out of the common impugned .. in criminal appeal no s. and the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby both the appeals filed by the petitioner were dismissed. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave page to appeal. the leave in above appeals was granted on .. and it were heard on ... both appeals are to be disposed off by a common judgment. briefly the facts of the case are th at on .. a qawali was su ng in a morning show during the transmission of a program i.e. utho, jago pakistan in geo channel. the qawali in question hich telecast by the geo channel is relating to hazrat ali (ra) and hazrat bib i fatima (ra) which is mostly su ng and on air ed on various other channels on the occasion of marriage ceremonies. whereafter, various competitor channels and members of civil society of pakistan started provocative campaign against the host and the channel of the said program particularly against the petitioner charging different allegations i.e. commission of impertinence and disrespect to the sacred family of the ahl -e-baiat. consequently, a number of firs across the country including firs in gilgit -baltistan have been registered against the petitioner s. the fir no. and under section -a and under section -a ppc read with anti -terrorism act at police station baseen district gilgit and at police station chilas district diamer were instituted against the petitioner and trial was also conducted in the learned anti terrorism court gilgit in absentia of the petitioner. the learned trial cour upon hearing convicted the proclaimed offenders including the petitioner to undergo for ten () years rigorous imprisonment and to pay fine of rs. (rupees three hundred thousand only) each under page section -l of the anti -terrorism act in addition to the aforesaid imprisonment various other sentences and fines were also awarded to the petitioner under various sections of anti -terrorism act the peti tioner feeling aggrieved by the said judgment of the learned trial court filed crimin al appeal no. and before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court which upon hearing were dismissed on technical ground vide impugned .., hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal while suspending the operation of th impugned judgment in question. consequently, notices were issued to the respondent for their appearance and the case was heard on .. and the judgment was reserved. alongwith submits that the qawali relating to hazrat ali (ra) and hazrat fatima (ra) was elecast in the morning show of geo channel, is sung almost on the occasion of the wedding ceremonies of the sh ia community throughout the country generally and in gilgit -baltistan particularly. he also stated that in the marriage of his own sons and daught ers the said qawali was sung as munqabat they contended that the petitioner mir shakeel -ur- rehman in criminal appeal no. has nothing to do with the management of the morning show in question as the same is page organized and managed by the independent media corporation (imc) which is a private corporation. they also submit that the petitioner was is out of country for last approximately years and he has no role in telecasting of the said program at all. furthermore, the petitioner is neit her a share holder nor he has the role of any executive director under the geo channel. the learned counsel placed on record a copy of extract third schedule (under section of the company ordinance form -a annual return of companies share capita l, vide registration no. dated .. with the list names of directors and members of independent media corporation (private) limited, printing house i.i chundrigar road, karachi as under: directors: (a). muhammad ibrahim. (b). members. (c). mir ibrahim rehman. (d) (e) (f) (g) jang (pvt) limited. (h) pakistan ink and packing industries (pvt) limited. they reiterated their submissions that the said program is owned and controlled by a private limited corporation hosted by the co -accused namely dr. shaista lodhi who had unconditionally page prayed for forgiveness first foremost from the allah almighty and generally she also apologized for her unintentional and inadvertent mistake through publishing statement at print media as well as through electronic media from all those members of civil society of pakistan who have been hurt by the telecast of the said morning show. whereas the petitioner no. in criminal no. participated in the said morning show as guests. they further submit that i is not a crime to telecast the said qawali and the purpose of the telecast of the said quail was meant to pay homage tribute for the sacred family of ahlay -bait and to increase their dignity and respect in the eyes of viewers. it was never meant to decrease (nauz billah) the respect of the holy family at all. they also submit that the management of geo channel has also suspend ed the host of the said morning show and the inquiry was also conducted in this regard. they argue that despite of all the aforementioned steps taken by the management of geo channel more than one hundred firs have been chalked out by the different groups and individuals with the allegation of commission of crime as no person can be held for double jeopardy as per law of the land. they urged that the registration of more than hundred firs by the various individuals and groups for ulterior motives or on the behest of other various competitor channels based on professional jealousy and rivalry on personal grudge s. they reiterate that supposed if it was a crime to telecast the said qawali then on fir against the commission of said crime should have been registered within the page territorial jurisdiction at karachi as the program was on aired at karachi sindh, there must be an fir in the concerned police station under the relevant sections of law. they maintained that by chalking out of more than one hundred firs across the country including in gilgit -baltistan against one crime is unprecedented and not understandable as no accused can be vexed twice for the same offence. resultantly, prosecution of the offences has be en started simultaneously in the various courts across the country. at this stage they referred article of the constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan which is not applicable in gilgit baltistan. the territory of gilgit -baltistan is not he de-jure part of pakistan and the petitioner being the citizen of pakistan cannot be prosecuted under any adopted law (s) and the punishment sentence awarded under such law by the courts of gilgit -baltistan is void ab -initio and having no legal effect. they also add force to their submissions that when we examine the alleged offence from constitutional point of view, the matter involves trial of a person wh ose rights are protected under the constitution of pakistan, the trial of such person by a court within the jurisdiction of gilgit -baltistan where constitution of pakistan has not been extended and the creation of the trial court has not been carried out under the constitution of pakistan, so it would be deprivation and violation of the uaranteed fundamentals rights of the petitioners. the learned counsel for the petitioner further submit while analyzing comparatively article of the page constitution of pakistan and the article of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, firstly article of said order, restricts scope of it exclusively to the territorial jurisdiction of gilgit -baltistan. secondly, article of the said order defines the citizen which stipulates that unless otherwise expressed in this order citizen means a person who has a domicile of gilgit -baltistan. the aforementioned articles of the said order transpire that the order in question is restricted to the territorial jurisdiction of gilgit -baltistan. it is applicable only upon the citizens of the said region as defined in the order itself. similarly, the article of the constitution of pakistan provides definition of a citizen of pakistan as defined by law. they further submit that a citizen of pakistan derives his rights and obligations from the constitution of pakistan only and a citizen of gilgit -baltistan seeks his rights and obligations from the presidential order i.e. the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, moreover, the area of ilgit-baltistan is governed by virtue of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, and the judicial system in gilgit -baltistan has been functioning under article and of the said order whereas, the subordinate judiciary in ilgit-baltistan is created under the statutory provisions under the supervision of gilgit baltistan chief court. the article () of the said order expressly provides that no court shall have any jurisdiction which is not conferred on it by this order or by or under any other law page they specifically argue that it is constitutional not a statutory restriction to initiate the trial against a citizen of pakistan whose fundamental rights have been guaranteed by constitution of pakistan. they conclude their arguments relating to the legal points of view while saying that the learned anti -terrorism court has exceeded from his domain and territorial jurisdiction while initiating the prosecution and passing a judgment thereto which according to them having no legal force and the same is ultra vires and of no legal effect. they further submit that keeping in view the aforesaid arguments, there is no justification for trial of a person in a court of gilgit -baltistan where offence has not been committed and only consequences have been ensued. section of cr.pc provides clear guideline to register an fir and to initiate a trial within he territorial jurisdiction of the court where an alleged commission of offence is reported. according to the section fir no. was registered at police station methadar, karachi, is prosecutable at karachi jurisdiction and the remaining multip le firs registered at various police stations of the country including in gilgit -baltistan are against the principle of criminal hence, the same are illegal and without jurisdiction which required to be quashed in line with the law. they particularly refer article of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order which clearly stipulates that in case of conflict between the laws of pakistan and the law framed under the order in question of gilgit -baltistan, the law of pakistan page shall prevail they urge that keeping in view of the above referred legal questions the the effect of the said judgment has also been seized in the territories of pakistan under article () of constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan, vide .. in constitution petition no. the operative part of the said order of the after hearing the learned counsel for the petitioner we direct that in the meanwhile the judgment in question shall not been implemented in the territories of pakistan as defined in article () of the constitution of islamic republic of pakistan, they also submit that basically the matter in question squarely falls under the pemra ordinance the council of complaints on the multiple complaints from the public at large for airing objectionable content on geo channel, the pakistan electronic media regulatory authority (pemra referred the matter to the council of complaints sindh who upon hearing punished the channel in question under relevant rules by awarding them the following punishments vide ..:- quote the licence no. () stv dated .. issued to i ndependent media corporation (pv t) ltd, for geo page entertainment is uspended for a period of days with effect from .. to ... a fine of rs. ten () million is imposed on independent media corporat ion pvt limited (geo entertain ment) to be deposited before the expiry of the suspension period failing which the channel shall not be allowed to resume its transmission and its licence shall remain suspended till such time the fine is paid. re-broadcast of the programme utho jago pakistan aired on .. on geo entertainment is completely banned. any channel found relaying the said programme either in part or in toto shall henceforth be proceeded against. the programme, utho jago pakistan as well as its entire team including host the producer etc is also banned forthwith. unq uote they contended that as many as ninety nine () firs on the same matter have been registered against the petitioner in all the four provinces and firs in gilgit -baltistan. the petitioner were firstly prosecuted and punished by suspending licence of geo channel and awarding sentences of fine by pemra vide ... secondly, the petitioner was tried prosecuted in fir no. in the court of judicial magistrate chamman (baluchistan), consequently, the petitioner was acq uitted vide ... both the aforementioned judgments i.e. conviction by the pemra authorities under special law of pemra ordinance for violation of pemra laws and rules thereto acquittal of petitioner by the learned judicial magis trate at chamman baluchistan, are holding field as no appeal has been page filed thereto either by the complainant or by the state. both the aforementioned judgments were delivered much prior to the impugned common .. in tc case no. the anti -terrorism court -i gilgit -baltistan. the learned counsels for the petitioner further contended that the petitioner also filed constitution petition no. before the learned high court of baluchistan pleading therein that only one case registered under fir no. is (under trial be tried prosecuted and the rests of the firs be quashed as all firs relate to one incident which has been allegedly occurred aired in karachi, sindh. the learned high court of baluchistan upon hearing the same was partially allowed and quashed the proceedings in three firs except fir no. registered under section -a, -a ppc (pending trial in the court of sessions vide its ... the learned session court at quetta upon hearing acquitted the appellant which also holds field. likewise, a constitution petition was also filed before the learned high court of sindh at karachi invoking section cr. pc for the purpose of quashment of the firs registered in the said province which upon hearing was declined. they reiterate that the alleged offence was committed in karachi district, sindh and fir no. and registered at karachi and cognizance has already been taken by the anti terrori sm court no. iii karachi. similarly, the pemra has also awarded punishment to the responsible persons who allegedly page committed the offence in question under relevant law and rules, hence, the cognizance of the same alleged crime by the anti terrorism court gilgit -baltistan was definitely a case of double jeopardy and the same was illegal and void ab -initio. secondly, the initiation of trial and passing a judgment thereto against the petitioner in absentia by the learned trial court is ultra vires to the provision of article () (d), -a, and of the constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan, as the said fundamental rights provide protectio to its citizens. the petitioner are the law abiding citizens of pakistan who cannot be deprived from their constitutional rights. the learned anti -terrorism court gilgit -baltistan and the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court have travelled beyond their jurisdiction while taking cognizance and passing judgment thereto which is definitely a clear violation of article () and of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, as well. the initiation of trial, recording conv iction and awarding of punishments to the petitioner by the learned trial court gilgit baltistan and consequent dismissal of the appeal of the petitioner by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court was patently negation and violative of the provisions of sections () cr. pc sections -a, -a and of the pakistan penal code read with section of the anti terrorism act, k, -l of the anti terrorism act, page they finally submit that the petitioner have no role in telecasting of alleged contemptuous material against the religious sentiments of the muslims and the petitioner s, cannot even imagine to do so. they concluded that the learned trial court has illegally, unlawfully and without jurisdiction has prosecuted the case against the petitioner in absentia. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court should have to set aside the judgment of the learned trial court but instead of doing so the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court dismissed the appeal of the etitioner on technical grounds vide impugned .. which is not tenable and liable to be set aside to meet the ends of justice. in support of the aforementioned contentions they relied upon the case laws in case titled government of unjab ziaullah khan reported as scmr in case titled muhammad fazil others the state reported as scmr in case titled muhammad arif the state reported as scmr and in case titled mir ikhlaq ahmed the state reported as scmr conversely, the learned counsels appearing on behalf of the complainant contend that that the petitioner convict accused remained fugitive from law and did not surrende either before the learned trial court or before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court or before this apex court. they also contend that the learned trial court keeping in view the perpetual absconsion of the petitioner after fulfilling the legal re quirements as provided under sub section of section of the anti terrorism act, has rightly declared page them as proclaimed offenders and a counsel on the expenses of the state was also provided them to defend the allegation s. they also contend that the initiation of the trial was in the knowledge of the petitioner but they intentionally avoided to surrender before the learned trial court. they further contend that no accused can claim relief while not surrendering him before the court of law and in case of perpetual absconsions, the properties of the accused were is confiscated as per law. they argue that it is a settled principle of criminal -l of the anti terrorism act,, hence, the learned anti terrorism court gilgit has rightly prosecuted, convicted and sentenced the appellant in both the appeals and awarded punishment to the petitioner on proven guilty after examining pws who charged the petitioner for committing the offence while willfully airing the contemptuous material which hurt the religious teachings of the muslims across the pakistan generally and peoples of gilgit -baltista particularly. they also contend that the matter falls under the domain of anti terrorism court gilgit -baltistan. the petitioner through their controversial programme spread religious hatred feelings among the muslims who respect the ahl -e-baiat as the oly personages and their respect is a integral part of the faith of muslims. the purpose behind the enactment of the anti terrorism act, was to punish the terrorists and the law violators who spread religious hatred in the peaceful society of the cou ntry, so as the ratio of the page crime in the society may be eliminated and an environment of peace and harmony could be established. they further contend that section of the anti terrorism act, was enacted with the purpose to punish the absconder and also the likeminded people who pull the curd from behind. the maintained that the accused are charged under anti terrorism act, their abettors and associates were also held liable for penal consequences of the act committed with their aid or connivance. they further argue that the accused who were charged under the said act if not present at the time of commission of offence, but were having nexus with the institution or the group committing crime were also liable to be punished under the said act. they urged that the important question involved in this case is the maintainability of an appeal by an accused convicted in absentia after due declaration of being proclaimed offender as provided in section () of the anti terrorism act, according to the learned counsels for the complainant, the appeals of the appellant are not maintainable and the leave to appeal granted by this court was also not sustainable and if such appeals are admitted for regular hearing it would not only be an utter violation of law but will also defeat the pivotal object of enactment of the ata, in case of allowing these appeals the most wanted terrorists in high profile cases i.e. nanga parbat case (killing of foreigners), chilas case (the murder of colone mustafa, ssp diamer and captain ishfaq) and hard criminal convicted in absentia by the anti terrorism court page gilgit would be entitled to file appeals through their counsels in absentia while remaining fugitive will also follow. they also contend that the judgment of this -baltistan has binding effect on the subordinate judiciary of gilgit -baltistan and a judgment of this apex court will set a precedent which is not permissible under the law. they also conten that no relief can be provided to the petitioner unless and until the pre -requisite condition is fulfilled i.e. surrender first, entertainment of appeals petitions later. they reiterated that he learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has dismissed the appeal of the petitioner solely on the technical grounds that the appellant have not surrendered before the learned trial court and who were declared absc onders after due process of law. the petitioner have lost he right of appeal and audience, hence, these petitions may very graciously be remanded to the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court to hear and decide the same afresh on its own merit s. furthermore, a constitutional petition no. filed by the learne counsels for the appellant is also subjudice in the the .. in the territories of pak istan vide its .. passed in constitutional petition no. they add force to their submission that the conviction awarded in absentia could not be challenged by an absconder and page the petitioner have only option to adopt the mecha nism as provided in sub section of section of the anti terrorism act, they continue their submissions that the leave to appeal filed by the petitioner was not maintainable as the same can only be entertained when the convicted accused are behi nd the bars serving the sentences. the conviction can only be suspended and they could be released on bail when they are in prison serving sentences so awarded to them. they further contend that it is the settle proposition of law across the country and worldly recognized interpretation of law that law does not grant any allow ance to those who do not submit to the courts of law and in this regard pathora of case laws have been rendered by the apex court and high courts of pakistan. they concluded their arguments that the petitions filed by the petitioner are not maintainable and if the same are entertained and any relief is granted to the petitioner convict absconder, it would be ultra vires to the law and a sc ope would be opened for all those high profile absconders who have been awarded punishment in absentia, hence, the appeal of the petitioner be dismissed to meet the ends of justice. while saying so they relied upon the case laws in case titled amir oth ers the state reported as pld quetta in case titled hassan akhtar another the state reported as ylr in case titled mairaj begum ejaz anwar others reported as pld sc in case titled begum nusrat bhutto hrough daughter the state through chairman nab reported as pld page lahore in case titled mumtaz hussain deputy inspector general faisal abad others reported as pld lahore in case titled gul hassan another the state reported as pld sc in case titled mst. ramzan bibi district magistrate tribunal sahiwal another reported as pld sc in case titled muhammad aslam others ejaz ahmed others reported as scmr in case titled hay at bakhsh others the state reported as scmr in case titled mst. razia begum jahangir others reported as pld sc in case titled chan shah the crown reported as pld fc and in case titled benazir bhutto mna, leader of the opposition the state reported as scmr sc the learned counsel for the complainant, however, have neither denied nor contradicted th at the same qawali is sung in the wedding cerem onies in gilgit -baltistan as munkabat we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, peru sed the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chie court as well as the judgments the pemra authorities, islamabad, learned judicial magistrate at chamman (baluchistan and by the district and session (baluchistan ). we have also gone through the case laws relied by the learned counsels for the respective parties as well as we are fortified by the number of judgments delivered by the the case laws relied upon hardly supports the contenti ons raised by the complain ants. this cour for convenience reproduces the following articles of the constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan, :- article () (d). the republic and its territories. such states and territories as are or may included in pakistan, whether by accession or otherwise article security of person. no person shall be deprived of life or liberty save in accordance with law. article protection against double punishment and self-incrimination. no person: (a) shall be prosecuted or punished for the same offence more than once, or (b) shall, when accused of an offence, be compelled to be a witness against himself. article inviolability of dignity of man, etc. () the dignity of man and, subject to law, the privacy of home, shall be inviolable. () no person shall be subjected to torture for the purpose of extracting evidence. article government of territories outside province. subject to the constitution, until majlis -e-shoora (parliament) by law otherwise provides, the president may, by order, make provision for peace and good government of any part of pakistan not forming part of a province. article citizen means a citizen of pakistan a defined by la w; page the relevant articles of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, are reproduced as under: article (). short title, extent and commencement. () this order may be called the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, () it extends to the whole of areas gilgit -baltistan. article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, () there shall be constituted a gilgit -baltistan supreme appellate court, referred to as the supreme appellate court to be the highest court of appeal. () the remuneration and other terms and conditions of service of the chief -baltistan supreme appellate court shall be such as are admissible to the chief justi ce of pakistan and judges of supreme court of pakistan. () subject to the succeeding provision of this article, as supreme court gilgit -baltistan shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine appeals from judgments, decrees, final orders or sentences of the chief court of gilgit -baltistan. article () no court shall have any jurisdiction which is not conferred on it by this order or by or under any other law. article order to override other laws, etc. () the provision of this order shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the provisions of any law for the time being in force except that in case of conflict between the laws of pakistan and the laws framed under this order, the laws of pakistan shall prevail. page we have also perused the materials available on record of the case file with the able assistance of the learned counsels for the respective parties. as regard the case relied upon by the learn ed counsels for the petitioner i.e. in case of muhammad arif the stat (supra) wherein, the apex court of pakistan was pleased to hold that the trial of the accused was conducted in absence and without providing an opportunity of hearing to the accused. the said punishments sentences are not sustainable under the law being violative of the articles of the constitution of pakistan as well as to the provisions of sections ()(b) of the anti terrorism act, which necessitated re -trial of the case, in case mir ikhlaq ahmed another the state (supra) the same view was taken that trial in absentia is violative to the articles of the constitution islamic republic of pakistan and law, however, the appeal was entertained by the learned high court and by the learned apex court of pakistan in absentia without su rrendering the accused and set aside the convictions sentences and the case was remanded back to the learned trial court for hearing afresh in accordance with law. in a case muhammad fazil the state others (supra) the in such case the appellant had option of either surrendering before the trial court and seeking fresh trial or filing an appeal in the learned high page court, if he feels that the evidence recorded against him in absentia does not justify conviction. the case laws cited by the learned counsels for the complainant and learned advocate general for gilgit -baltis tan government i.e. amir others the state (supra), where an accused is fugitive from law and has not surrendered to the process of la w, his appeal was not entertained and the same was dismissed by refusing right of audience to the absconder. the appeal of an accused who has absconded after duly lodging his appeal can be heard on merits and decided accordingly, the appeals filed on behalf of the convicts absconders, who had not surrendered to the process of law after their conviction, therefore, were not competent, nor the same could be filed by the counsel in whose favour statedly power of attorneys were executed or by their relatives, as such the same being not maintainable under the law were dismissed accordingly, in case of hassan akhtar anot her the state (supra ), it is held that the absconders who have not surrendered before the court after their conviction cannot file appeal through their advocate. in case mairaj begum ejaz anwar and others (supra), it is held that respondent despite issuance of non -bailable warrant of arrest remaining fugitive from law and court for nearly five years and not surrendering and counsel appearing in court from respondent side to state that he having been instructed to remain present in court ---non surrendering of the accused convict was intentional and defiance of page court process. consequently, he lost his right of hearing through his counsel in appeal. in case of begum nusrat bhutto through daughter miss sanam bhutto the state through chair man national accountability bureau, the division bench of lahore high court has held that the proclaimed offender, failure to surrender before court and trial was conducted in absentia and accused convicted his appeal was filed on behalf of convict, without his appearance in person before the appellate court. the convicted was bound under the law, to surrender before the court to undergo the sentence of imprisonment passed against him her. the convict, who was a fugitive from law, was not entitled to invoke the provisions of section of national accountability bureau ordinance upon challenging his conviction the appeal was not maintainable in ircumstances. in case of hayat ba khsh and others the state supra), it is held that the appeal of the accused, a fugitive from accused was acquitted. we, however, are fortified by the following judgme nts to reach on conclusion i.e. mahram ali federation of pakistan pld sc muhammad ashfaque alias chief others the state, pcr. lj and m.b abbasi the state scmr, in case of fateh ali pir muham mad scmr in case of muhammad darvaish al -gilani and others muhammad shareef and others, scmr in case of meherwan cavashi irani khuda ukhsh marri page scmr page in a case titled mahram ali others federati on of pakistan others (supra ), it is held that the right of access of adverting to the question of trial of an accused in absentia under section () of the ata, it has been observed that the learned attorney general had conceded before the court that no trial in absentia could be held and app ropriate measures shall be taken within a period of two months to amend or repeal the aforesaid sections of ata, in case of muhammad ashfaque alias chief others the state (supra), the high court of sindh was pleased to hold that the appeal is a fundamental right and a continuation of proceedings. when a person could be tried in absentia, there was no reason as to why his appeal could not be heard in absentia. the merits of the case were to be decided on he basis of evidence available on record. higher degree of assurance was required and it was the basic requirement of law that there must be clear and unequivocal proof that offence was committed by the known persons. decisions could not be based upon mere supposition, but must rest upon legal grounds established by legal testimony. the rules of evidence could not be departed on the basis of moral conviction. the rule of oral evidence required that best available evidence must alone be given and while deali ng with oral evidence, probabilities, presumptions and surrounding page circumstances should always be looked into for more often than not, such evidence was mixture of truth, falsehood, ignorance and motive etc. it is also held that in fact in the act two righ ts have been provided to the accused. firstly, he can appear before the special court and explain his absence, and if satisfactory explanation is offered, the court would set aside the conviction and would proceed afresh. secondly, right is under section of the act. he can prefer appeal before the high court. it is pertinent to point out that in section of the act, the words used are shall have a right of appeal it means that an accused can, after conviction, prefer appeal to the high court, despite the fact that he remained absent before the trial court. the only difference would be that if he appeared before the trial court he would right for fresh trial and could take all the pleas in defence available to him. while in case of appeal only the mate rial available on record would be examined. nothing is provided in section of the act that, before preferring appeal, the accused was required to surrender before the appell ate court. this court followed the parameter laid down in a case of indian jurisd iction i.e. the state of madhia pardesh mohandas criminal law journal and wherein it is held that two rights have been provided to the accused on he can surrender before the learned court or he may file an appeal before the learned high court of the respective jurisdiction. in case of m.b abbassi and another the state. the if he feels that evidence recorded against him would not justify conviction and such person has equal rights of filing appeal, who seeks it adjudication on merits. upon hearing the appeal was allowed in absentia and convictions and sentences awarded to him were set aside and were acquitted. in case fateh ali pir muhammad and others the honorable supreme court has held that the learned the appellate co urt was fully competent to decide the case on the material before him. in case of muhammad darvaish al -gilani and others muhammad arif supr a), the -trial are well settled. this power could not exercised lightly but sufficient care should be taken in remand of the case. the court should examine the evidence and if its come to the conclusion that it is not sufficient to pronoun ce the judgment or decide the issues between the parties it can remand the case or made itself record the evidence and decide it. but if on record there is adequate and sufficient material available on which decision can be made and on the face of it and or to remand the case would not be justify. in a case of meherwan cavasji irani khuda bukhsh marri, the apex court was pleased to hold that there was no justification for remanding the case by the high court to the trial court for fresh decision. the materials on record were page sufficient before the high court for deciding the case in circumstances. as regards the question of double jeopardy, we are also fortified with the judgments reported as adam collector customs karachi pld sc the state hadi bukhsh scmr ), muhammad ayub chairman electricity board rawalpindi pld sc muhammad ashra and other the state scmr mark mifs ud, customs karachi and others, pld karachi nazir ahmed capital city police officer lahore scmr in case of adam collector customs karachi supra ), it was observed by the supreme court that the doctrine of double jeopardy which is a term of american law corresponding to the principle of autre fois acquit and autre fois convict of the english law, as embodied in section of the criminal procedure code, prohibits a duplicate trial and a duplicate punishment for the same offence. in a case of muhammad ayub chairman electricity board (supra), the subject matter before the it was held that this article provides protection against double punishment in respect of the same offence. in a case of nazir ahmed city capital police officer (supra), it was held that it is well settled principle of law that no person shall be tried and punished twice for the same offence on the same set of allegations, same facts and same set of evidences. it is also held by the page -settled principle of law that no person will be tried for an offence on the same set of facts on which he has already been convicted or acquitted. as regards the co ntentions raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner that the alleged offence if any committed by the petitioner falls under the media laws i.e. the pakistan electronic media regulatory authority (pemra) read with the pemra rules and pemra (co uncil of complaints ru les being the special law regarding a ny omission commission of offence relating to the broadcasting and telecasting on the media channels have been regulated and framed thereto. consequently, the geo group was punished and awarded sentence in shape of fines by the pemra vide ... the fir were also registered against geo group, its owners, anchors and hosts hostess of the programme which was violative to the pemra ordinance and the rules framed there to. the code of conduct clearly prohibits the licence for airing such materials that may injured the feelings of any person or class as per show cause notices were issued to the geo news and penalty was imposed thereto for violating the terms condition of pemra laws rules being a special law which was sustainable being within the jurisdiction and cognizance of pemra authorities and the reference is made under sections and which are reproduced for convenience as und er:- section terms conditions of licence. a person who is issued a licence under this ordinance shall--- (a) ensure preservation of the sovereignty, security and integrity of the islamic republic of pakistan. page (b) ensure preservation of the national, cultural, social and religious values and the principles of public policy as enshrined in the constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan. (c) ensure that all programmes and advertisements do not contain or encourage iolence, terrorism, racial, ethnic or militancy, hatred, pornography, obscenity, vulgarity or other material offensive to commonly accepted standards or decency. (d) comply with rules made under this ordinance; (e) broadcast if permissible under the terms of its licence programmes in the public interest specified by the federal government or the authority in the manner indicated by the government or as the case may be, the authority, provided that the duration of such mandatory progr ammes do not exceed ten per cent of the total duration of broadcast or operation by a station in twenty four hours except if, by its own volition, a station chooses to broadcast xx such content for a longer duration; (f) comply with the codes of program mes and advertisements approved by the authority and appoint an in-house monitoring committee, under intimation to the authority, to ensure compliance of the code; (g) not broadcast or distribute any programme or advertisement in violation of copyright or other property right; (h) obtain noc from authority before import of any transmitting apparatus for broadcasting, distribution or teleporting operation. (i) not sell, transfer or assign any of the rights conferred by the licence without prior written permission of the authority. section council of complaints. () the federal government shall, by notification in the official gazette, establish councils of complaints at islamabad, the provincial capitals, and also at such ot her places as the federal government may determine. () each council shall receive or review complaints made by persons or organizations from the general public against any aspects of pragrammes broadcast or distributed by a station established throug a licence issued by the authority and render opinions on such complaints. page () each council shall consist of a chairperson and five members being citizen of eminence from the general public at least two of whom shall be women. a) the councils hall have the powers to summon the licence against whom a complain has been made and called for his explanation regarding any matter relating to its operation. (). the authority shall formulate rules for the functions and operation of the councils within two hundred days of the establishment of the authority. (). the councils may recommend to the authority appropriate action of censure, fine against to broadcast or ctv station or licence for violation of the codes of programme content and advertisement as approved by the authority as may be prescribed. section power to vary conditions, suspend or revoke the licence. () the authority may revoke or suspend the licence of a broadcast media or distribution service by an order in writing on one or more of the following grounds, namely: (a) the licence has fail to pay the licence free, annual renewal fee or any other charges including fine, if any; (b) the licence has ontravened any provision of this ordinance or rules or regulations made thereunder: provided that in the case of revocation of a licence of a broadcast an opinion to this effect shall also be obtained from the council of complaints; (c) the licence has failed to comply with any condition of the licence; and (d) where the licence is a company, and its shareholders have transfer a majority of the shares in the issue or paid up capital of the company or if control of the company is otherwise tr ansferred to persons not being the original shareholders of the company at the time of grant of licence, without written permission of the authority. (). the authority may vary any of the terms and conditions of the licence where it deems that such variation is in the public interest. page (). accept for reason of necessity in the public interest a licence shall not be varied, suspended or revoked under sub section or sub section unless the licence has been given reasonable notice to show cause and personal hearing. section offence and penalties. (). any broadcast media or distribution service operator or person who violates or abets the violation or any of the provisions of the ordinance shall be guilty of an offence punishable with a fine which may extend to ten million rupees. (). where such broa dcast media or distribution service operator or person repeats the violation or abetment, such shall be guilty of an offence punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both. (). where the violation, or abetment of the violation of any provisions of this ordinance is made by a person who does hold a licence, such violation shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to four years, or with fine, or with both. (). whosever damage, re moves tampers with or commits theft of any equipment of a broadcast media or distribution service station licence by the authority, including transmitting or broadcasting apparatus, receivers, boosters, converters, distributions, antennae, wires, decoder s, set -top boxes or multiplexers shall be guilty of an offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three years, or with fine, or both. section cases to be initiated on complaint. no court shall take cognizance of any offence under sub section () of section of this ordinance except a complaint in writing by the authority or any officer authorized by it. section cognizance of offences etc. () no court shall inferior to that of a magistrate of the first class shall an offence punishable under this ordinance. page () notwithstanding anything contained in section of the code of criminal procedure (act of )., it shall be lawful for any magistrate the first class to pass any sentence authorized by this ordinance even if such sentence exce eds his power under the said section section ordinance overrides other laws: -. the provisions of this ordinance shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being is force, or any contract, agreement or any other instrument whatsoever. provided that (a) the national broadcaste r, namely the pakistan broadcasting corporation shall continue to be regulated by the pakistan broadcasting corporation act (xxxii) of and the pakistan television corporation and shalimar recording and broadcasting company limited shall cont inue to be administered under the provisions of the companies ordinance xlvii of ); and (b) other existing private broadcaster or ctv operators who had been granted respective monopolies in multi model distribution system, cable tv and in radio shall henceforth be regulated by this ordinance except in respect where specific exemption are granted by the authority. it is an admitted principle of law that nobody can be prosecuted and punished twice for the same offence in violation of the fundamental right of the petitioners. the petitioner were prosecuted almost in all the four provinces of pakistan and most of the cases registered on the same set of allegations, same set of fact and the same set of evidence and many of the firs have been quashed and in two case the petitioner were acquitted whereas pemra has convicted and awarded sentences to geo channel prior to the judgment of anti terrorism court gilgit -baltistan which are holding field. in view of the above discussions, case laws referred herein above, materials available on record and judgments the page learned pemra authorities, vide .. for violation of media law s, .. in criminal case fir no. registered at police station chamman the learned judicial magistrate at chamman baluchistan) much prior to the impugned common in tc case no. the learned anti -terrorism court no. i gilgit baltistan on the same set of allegations, same set of facts and same set of evidence which hold field as no the said judgments orders have been preferred. subsequently, the learned district sessions .. in session case no. (fir no. which also holds field. in our considered view the provisions of article (a) of the constitution of islamic republic of pakistan read with article of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order and the provisions of section cr. pc as well as section of the general clause act are fully attracted. we also hold that after promulgation of the pakistan electronic media regulatory authority ordinance being a special law, have exclusive jurisdiction and take cognizance of offences committed by media channels in violation of pemra laws rule thereto i.e. in presence of penal provisions, pemra can suspend, cancel licence. prosecute convict and award sentences of fines who soever violates the pemra laws rules thereto. the pemra ordinance has an overriding effect upon other previous enacted special laws. it is settled principle of law that every case is to be decided on its own merits. the high profile page cases referred by the learned counsel for the complainant are completely distinguishable. in pursuance of the case laws referred above of the learned high courts and both the criminal a ppeals are allowed. resultantly app ellants in both the appeals i.e. mir shakeel -ur-rehman in criminal appeal no. and mst. shaista lodhi, veena malik and asad bashir khattak in criminal appeal no. are acquitted. consequent thereto the impugned .. in criminal appeals no. and the learned gilgit baltistan chief court and .. in tc case no. the learned anti -terrorism court no. i, gilgit -baltistan are set aside. both the appeals are allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?