page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan cpla no. chief judge. judge. judge. fahim haider petitioner. government of pakist an through secretary ka gb affairs and others. respondents. advocate supreme court of pakistan assisted by to date of hearing: -- judgment muhammad nawaz abbasi, cj: this petition by leave of court has been directed against the a division bench of the chief court whereby the two conn ected writ petitions bearing no. filed by the gilgit -baltistan contractor association a nd writ petition no. filed by the present petitioner faheem haider pvt ltd, have been dismissed. the petitioner in the above petition have sought declaration to the effect that the -- the secretary, ministry of ka na (ka gb), government of pakistan by virtue of which he set aside the .. the chief engineer water and power department, governm ent of gilgit -baltistan in his capacity as chairman, departmental procurement committee for recall of the tenders for fresh bid in respect of the contract of supply of hydro power turbines was without lawful authority and of no legal effect. page fahim hai der petitioner herein on dismissal of his writ petition has preferred this petition before this court in which after preliminary hearing, the notice was issued to the respondent vide -- for consideration of the question relating to the jurisdiction of minister for ka na chairman northern areas (now gilgit -baltistan) for taking cognizance in the matter and the authority of secretary ka na division to pass the order under challenge by reversing the order of chairman departmental bidding committee. the order is read as under: the subject matter of this petition is contract for supply of hydro power turbines to be awarded by water and power department gilgit -baltistan. the tenders were accordingly invited and the petitioner and responden ts no. to participated in the bid. the chief engineer having found none of the bids responsive, rejected all the bids vide -- with recall of the tenders. the secretary, ministry of ka gb division islamabad on representation of resp ondent no. against rejection of his bid vide -- declared him successful bidder. the learned counsel for the petitioner with reference to rule of public procurement regulatory authority rules framed under public procurement re gularity authority ordinance contents that any person aggrieved of rejection or acceptance of a bid can avail the remedy of complaint before the procurement committee or invoke the jurisdiction of competent court and neither the representation before secretary ka na division islamabad was maintainable nor the secretary was competent to interfere in the matter. precisely the contention of the learned counsel is that the remedy against the rejection of bid was either complaint before the procurement com mittee or to invoke the jurisdiction of the competent court but the chief court without attending the real question involved in the matter has dismissed the writ petition in a perfunctory manner on technical ground. the learned counsel added that the orde the secretary ka gb division being without lawful authority may seriously reflect upon the fair award of contract of an important public project and dismissal of writ petition on the ground that it was not maintainable was not proper and legal. the contentions raised being not without force require consideration, therefore notice is issued to the respondents. learned advocate general on court call has appeared and he has been directed to file concise statement on behalf of the officials respond ents (respondents no. to ). the learned counsel for petitioner states that respondent no. and are proforma and respondent no. is the real contestant. in addition page to the ordinary mode of service respondent no shall also be served through the eputy commissioner islamabad as special measure. the case will be relisted on -- and meanwhile the order the secretary ka gb division whereby respondent no. has been declared successful bidder will remain suspended it is consider ed appropriate to recapitulate the factual position in the background with reference to the documents relied upon by the parties for better appreciation of the question of law and facts raised by their learned counsel in the present determination of this court. the board of office rs of the department of water and power, government of gilgit baltistan invited application for prequalification of contractors for participation in the bid for grant of the contract of turbo generating sets for hyd ro power projects and in response application were received out of which were shortlisted as qualified for participa tion in the bid in which the petitioner and respondent no. to were included who having participate in the auction offered their bids. the bidding committee on opening the bids, except the bid offered by al -fajr international (respondent no. ), having found no other bid responsive, observed that single responsive bid was not competitive and recommended for rejection of all bids. consequently the chief engineer in his capacity as chairman of the committee assuming the power of competent authority vide .., rejected all bids with direction for recall of tender. the bid of al-fajr international (respondent no. was excluded from consideration for the reason that it was a single responsive bid and not only was non competitive but was also not lowest to the nonresponsive bids offered by other bidders in the auction. al-fajr international (respondent no. being ag grieved of page rejection of his bid filed a representation before the minister for kashmir affairs and northern areas (ka gb) who was also exercising the power of chairman northern area under northern areas governance order for interference in the matter. the chairman northern areas taking cognizance of the matter directed secretary ka na division of federal government of pakistan for obtaining opinion of public procurem ent regulatory authority (ppra) in the matter and ppra on a reference of secretary ka na division expressed opinion as under: government of pakistan public procurement regulatory authority (cabinet division) subject: clarification on acceptance of single tender. reference kashmir affairs northern areas division d.o. letter no. c- dated 2nd september, on the above subject. there is no restriction under public procurement rules, on acceptance of a single bid received in response to a tender notice if the same fulfils requirements of the procuring agency transla ted through qualification as well as evaluation criteria. public procurement rules, restrict the procuring agencies to accept lowest evaluated bid which has been defined under rule (h) of the public procurement rules, as: i) a bid most closely con forming to evaluation criteria and other conditions specified in the bidding document, and ii) having lowest evaluated cost, any bidder which has been declared as technically non -responsive should not be considered for competition even if his financial offer is comparatively lower. sd muhammad saleemullah director the secretary ka na division, government of pakistan in pursuance of the opinion of ppra examined the matter in detail and vide .. held the respondent no. as succes sful bidder with direction to the chief secretar y, government of gilgit baltistan for further necessary action. the chief secretary instructed the bidding ommittee for negotiation with respondent no. for reduction of bid money and bidding committee having negotiated the matter with the respondent made him agree to reduce the bid money to page a reasonable extend which is almost equal to the bid money of lowest bid and implemented the order of secretary ka na for award of contract to al-fajr international (res pondent no. ). the petitioner also in the meanwhile filed a representation before the minister for ka na chairman northern areas in which a report was called from the chief secretary, gilgit -baltistan and since no separate order was passed in the represen tation of petitioner therefore the same would deemed to have been disposed of by the .. the secretary ka na division in the representation filed by al-fajr pvt. ltd. the petitioner being aggrieved of the order of secretary ka na division challenged the same before the chief court gilgit -baltistan in a writ petition which was dismissed vide impugned judgment, whereupon he preferred the present petition before this court supported by the documents referred hereunder: represent ation of al-fajr pvt limited before the minister for ka na, government of pakistan: subject: na water power dep artment tender for supply, installation commissioning and te st running of turbo gen erating sets for gil git region (lot -a) sets and bal tistan region (lot b) sites opened 3rd august, a;;eal against department decisio dated 5th august, we take the opportunity to inform you that our company, al-fajr international, islamabad is engaged in the field of hy dropower since last years. we supplied and installed all together hydro machines of different capacities. in the recent past, we successfully completed power projects of the na pwd and two hydro projects of shydo in chitral. our company, after oing through the entire open competitive bidding process, submitted its bid to the department on due date i.e. 3rd august, in addition to our company, the following companies also competed and submitted their bids: s. heavy mechanical complex, tex ila s. hydropower equipments engineers research institute tried, china jv with wazir imtiaz, hassanabad, skardu. page s. fahim haider co. lahore. the above three companies were declared nonresponsive by the departmental procurement committee on one rea son or the other while our bid was declared most responsive. but now we have been informed by the department vide their letter dated 5th august that our bid, (the only responsive bid) has been rejected by the competent authority due to nonresponsive bids submitted by the tree firms and the tender will be recalled. in this connection we would like to invite your kind attention to the fact that the public procurement rules do not put any limit or number of tenders bids received in response to ender notices. the rules lay down that the single bid may be considered if it meets the evaluation criteria laid down in the tender document. very recently we met with the same situation in wapda tender for mw jabban hpp. wapda received only one bid after going through the open competitive a bidding process. the bid was meeting the evaluation criteria laid down in the tender documents. wapda considered that bid in the light of public procurement rules and the contract was awarded after negotiati ons. as we are confident that our bid meets the evaluation criteria laid down in the tender document and is not in conflict with any rules, regulations or policy of the government, we request your honour to kindly intervene in the matter and direct the orthern areas water power department to make a prudent decision by inviting us for negotiation in order to avoid repetition of the some time consuming bidding process because the department has already used open competitive bidding process as the princip le method of procurement as laid down in the public procurement rules it is pertinent to add here that by submission of the appeal we are not asking for any undue avour but assuring you of our highest regards and best attention at all times. tanking you, yours sincerely, for al-fajr international, -sd- md letter dated 2nd september of government of pakistan, ka na division by virtue of which secretary ka na division sought opinion of ppra islamabad:- subject: clarifi cation on acceptance of single tender water and power department northern areas invited applications from the contractors for pre -qualification for the work supply, installation, commissioning and test running of turbo generator sets for hydropower pro ject in northern areas lot a lot through print media for wide publicity and same was also displayed on the public procurement regulatory authority (ppra) website. thirteen firms applied for pre -qualification short listing and the process was carri ed out though a committee of professionals. the pre -qualification process was found transparent and neither any firm having very low category of pakistan engineering council was short listed nor any firm considered without assignment of any reason therefo re, no irregularity in the short listing process was observed. those firms which could not fulfill the criteria and not short listed were informed indicating reasons of disqualification. pec bidding documents were used for calling of tenders on single stag e-two envelop system of ppra, wherein all the short listed firms contracdtors were supposed to submit technical and financial bids separately. bids were opened on -- a tender opening and evaluation committee at gilgit. according to the process, on first page day all the bids were scrutinized to ascertain responsiveness for further evaluation of bids. only four firms participated in the bidding. bid submitted by three of the firm were found nonresponsive because of the following reasons: i) they had ch anged the manufacturer and their profile and experience have also not been furnished. ii) neither bid security was furnished nor letter of exemption of ministry regarding public manufacturer of the goods being supplied as required under article () of sro () dated 3rd december, iii) nonresponsive as bid security in shape of cdr of bank guarantee was not furnished. iv) nonresponsive due to defective pricing. prices for each site were not quoted separately and lump sum prices without giving details wer quoted, which could not be evaluated. the quoted rates were also doubtful due to excessive cutting there were arithmetical mistakes in addition of the rates. the amount of bid security was also less than of the quoted amount of some bidders. in vie of the above, only one bid was found fully responsive. the issue for which your advice is required is whether the procuring authority will be in line with the rules if this single bid is accepted it may be mentioned that the bidding process was tran sparent and competitive and the laid down procedure were fully followed. this ministry went through the public procurement rules and found that there is no limitation on the number of tenders bids received a single bid may be considered if it meets the evaluation criteria expressed in tender notice and is not in conflict with any other rules, regulations or policy of the federal government. however, it is also laid down that in case of a single bidder a decision to accept the bid must be made keeping in view comparison of price of similar goods procured during the same year, and market price. in this case no procurements of this type were made in the current financial year and since the bids were competitive a mark survey was not resorted to. it may be mentioned hat one of the rejected bid (because it was non-responsive) had quoted a lower price than the responsive bidder. it is requested that an early advice may be given in view of the fact that the work season in the northern areas is limited. letter of ppra in the cabinet division, government of pakistan containing the opinion of ppra: government of pakistan public procurement regulatory authority (cabinet division) subject: clarification on acceptance of single tender. reference kashmir af fairs northern areas division d.o. letter no. pc dated 2nd september, on the above subject. there is no restriction under public procurement rules, on acceptance of a single bid received in response to a tender notice if the same ulfils requirements of the procuring agency translated through qualification as well as evaluation criteria. public procurement rules, restrict the procuring agencies to accept lowest evaluated bid which as been defined under rule (h) of the public procurement rules, as: a. a bid most closely conforming evaluation criteria and other conditions specified in the bidding document, and b. having lowest evaluated cost, any bidder which has been declared as technically non -responsive should not be cons idered for competition even if his financial offer is comparatively lower. sd muhammad saleemullah director page the letter dated -- of ka na division containing the order of secretary ka na division addressed to chief secretary gilgit-baltistan declaring al-fajr international (respondent no. successful bidder was as under: subject: short listing of fir refer ence your u.o. n.o swp dated -- on the subject. the whole case was examined in this ministr and put -up to the minister ka na chairman northern areas. the minister has desired to refer the case to ppra for a regulatory advice. the ppra vide their letter no. f.() dd ppra ka na dated 3rd september, informed that: i) under the public pr ocurement rules there is no restriction of acceptance of a si ngle bid ubject to the condition that it is done according to the laid down evaluation criteria and condition specified in the bidding documents. ii) the bid has the lowest evaluated cos t. iii) a technically non -responsive firm is not considered for competition even if his financial offer is comparatively low. in light of the above advice of ppra it is evident that while the prequalification and evaluation process of the bid documents were in line with the ppra requirements and transparent in nature. the criteria bidding documents of pakistan engineering council were used on the basis of which the bids of heavy mechanical complex, taxila, tried china and muhammad fahim haider lahor were found non responsive. the bid of al-fajr international (the second lowest bidder) was also found responsive and rejected because, the bid of tried china was lowest than him and was considered as the reasonable price. the ppra has ruled that a technically nonresponsive firm is not considered for competition even if his financial offer is comparatively low. in light of this advice it seems that the rejection of bid of al- fajr international was not in line with the laid down regulation. the minister ka na chairman nas has opined that the action so taken will result in delay of the execution of the works and create unnecessary controversy and may also result in cost over runs. in view of the above decision of ppra the decision of the evaluation has been over rules. the firm al-fajr international may therefore, be considered as the successful bidder and the case be further processed on an immediate basis under the intimation to this ministry. -sd- (muhammad ihtisham khan) secretar intimation letter dated 2nd november office of chief engineer na water and power department gilgit to al-fajr international, for grant of contract: no. hw nahew government of pakistan office of the executive engineer nahew division department gilgit. dated: 2nd november, to al -fajr international no. street islamabad pakistan page subject: supply, installation commissioning and te st running of turbo generator or hydro power proje cts in gilgit -baltistan (lot-a lot-b) (letter of acceptance) it is to inform you that your rebated financial bid for lot -a lot -b for rs. rupees one billion forty eight crore, sixty lac and twenty four thousand only) has been approved by the competent authority on -. you are requested to furnish the following immediately and attend the office of chief engineer water and power department gilgit -baltistan for signing of contract on 07th november, the contract of gilgit region will be signed by the chief engine er gilgit and contract of baltistan region will be signed by chief engineer baltistan region: i. item wise rebated price of set for each site as per detail given in the bid document, keeping the total amount within the rebated price quoted by you. ii. copy of agreement drawn between your principal and manufacturers for supply of turbo -generators and auxiliaries as per scope of bid for lot-a lot -b. iii. performance security equal to of the approved bid price or lot -a lot-b separately, in the name of chief engineer for gilgit region and in the name of chief engineer baltistan region, on the prescribed form of performance security given in the documents. the contract period will be years with effect from the date of issue of this acceptance letter. it will be appreciated if the completion time is reduced during the signing of contracts without any cost effect, if you want to complete the procurement earlier. you are therefore, requested to attend the office of chief engineer water and power department gilg it for signing of contract on 7th november, after fulfillment of pre requisites mentioned in para above. -sd- (engr. naz akbar shah) executive engineer nahew -nagar division department gilgit application of the petitioner faheem haider pvt. limited to the ministry of ka na wherein he lodged complaint of misappropriation of funds against the works department, government of gilgit -baltistan and for award of contract: ref: mfh a ka na dated:29th december the on ble minister, kashmir affairs and northern areas pak secretariat, block, islamabad. ref: this office letter to mfh a ka na dated 28th august this office letter to prime minister of pakistan dated 27th september this office letter to mis appropriation of funds in allotment project (supply installation, commissioning and test running of turbo gen erating sets for hyd ro power in northern are as (tender) respected sir, we would like to draw your kind attention on the subject work and the letter written to difference forums at times, but no action has been taken so far. we got to know that the negotiations are in process with a company which uoted higher rates then us at the time of opening of bids. negotiation with single company which is not lowest is unlawful. page we approach your honour with the request to kindly intervene in the matter and prevail upon the project authorities to handle this matter on just and equitable grounds, stop the procedure which is under way by the department and the tender for the contract may please be awarded to us as we are the lowest amongst all the bidders and our financial technical proposal is responsive and omplete in all respect. thanking you very truly yours for m. fahim haider (pvt) ltd. -sd- azeem haider director letter dated 5th january of the ministry of ka na division whereby report was called from the chief secretary gilgit, on the complaint petitioner: no. pc .. government of pakistan ministry of kashmir affairs and gilgit -baltistan planning and monitoring cell islamabad 5th january, subject: mis appropriation of funds in allotment project (supply installation, commi ssioning and test running of turbo gen erating sets for hyd ro power in northern areas (t ender) a self explanatory letter no. mfh a ka na dated 29th december, addressed to minister for kashmir affairs and gilgit -baltistan with copies inter alia to secretary ministry of kashmir affairs and gilgit -baltistan by m. fahim haider (pvt) ltd on the the above subject is enclosed. secretary, ministry of kashmir affairs and gilgit -baltistan has desired that a report in the matter may be sent to this inistry immediately. -sd- muhammad ashraf cheema chief (p m) report submitted by the chief secretary in reply to the letter dated 5th january of the ministry of ka na division: subject: mis -appropriating of funds in allotment of project (supply installation, commissioning and test running of turbo generating sets for hydro power units in gilgit -baltistan (tender ). please refer to the ministry of ka gb letter no. pc --- dated 5th jan, before giving the detailed report of the case it would be better to briefly mention some facts which will amply clarify the position of the bid offered by m.fahim haider (pvt) ltd, lahore. the compliant made by m. fahim haider is absolutely false and based on lies as when he failed to get the bid he went to the court of law where his petition was dismissed. m. fahim haider has now come with the flimsy pretext that negotiation with single company which is not lowest is unlawful the fact is that the highest bidder was hmc textile followed by m. fahim haider lahore while s. al -fajr international islamabad was at number () three and trid china was the lowest thus s. al -fajr international was the second lowest. the financial proposal of m. fahim haider was not according to the conditions and criteria clearly mentioned in the print media and also page displayed on the ppra,s website. following defects flaws were also observed by the board of officers. i. amount of bid security earnest money for lot a was less than the required amount. ii. site-wise ricing was not given as required by the tem and conditions of the tender. iii. quoted rates amount was also doubtful due to excessive cuttings, over writings and arithmetical mistakes. it will not be out of place to mention here that soon after opening of all the bids m.fahim haider submitted a written request vide his no. mfh -rg-- dated 5th august, (copy attached) for release of his earnest money. as he knew that his offer was neither the lowest nor as per criteria conditions already published in news papers and displayed on ppra,s website. in short his offer was clearly non responsive and therefore he requested for release of earnest money which was released on --. detailed report is as under: water and power department gilgit -baltist an initially planed to procure nos turbo generators for nos hydro power projects across gilgit baltistan in two lots, lot a for gilgit region and lot for baltistan region. the department invited applications for pre -qualifications from reput ed firms contractors joint ventures vide letter -() pre dated 16th december, through print media for wide publicity and same was also displayed on ppra website as per rules and regulations of ppra. in the advertisement, scope of work, mandatory conditions for short listing criteria for short listing was also clearly mentioned. in response firms applied for pre-qualifications. the pre -qualification process was carried out through a board of officers, constituted by the secreta ry power gb (the then na) vide letter -() dated 28th march, comprising of members from the power department headed by chief engineer and member from planning and development department and member from finance department gil git- baltistan. the board of officers evaluated the documents submitted by the firms as per criteria already given in the advertisement mentioned in para above and finally short listed the following five firms. heavy mechanical complex taxila. s. al-fajr international islamabad. tried (tianjun design research) in joint venture with imtiaz haider skardu. muhammad fahim haider. design engineers lahore. pakistan engineering council bidding documents were used for calling of tenders on single stage one envelop system of ppra rule (a) wherein all short listed firm contractors were supposed to submit technical and financial bids separately. the bid was opened on 3rd august, by a board of officers constituted by the competent author ity. out of five short listed firms four () firms submitted their technical and financial proposals. the evaluation committee opened the bids on 3rd august, in presence of members of committee and representatives of the firms. the technical and finan cial proposals were examined to ascertain their responsiveness. out of four () firms only one firm s. al -fajr international islamabad found responsive and the other firms hmc textile, tried china and muhammad fahim haider lahore became non responsive. the committee recommended to recall the tenders, as the rates of s. al -fajr international islamabad were on higher side. the recommendations of the committee were approved by the competent authority which was also endorsed by the secretary power. the firm s. al -fajr international islamabad has submitted appeal to the federal minister for kashmir affairs gilgit -baltistan (the then na), chairman gilgit -baltistan against the decision of the department. the page minister ka gb has opined that the action taken will result in delay of the execution of the works, and create un -necessary controversy, may result in cost over run and moreover the ppra had clearly mentioned that if bidding procedure were as per ppra rules then single id can also be considered, therefore has asked to reconsider the case. the kashmir affairs gilgit -baltistan (the then na) division referred the case to public procurement regulatory authority (ppra) vide do letter no. pc dated 2nd september, public procurement re gulator authority gave a clarification on acceptance of single tender vide their letter no. f. () dd i ppra ka na dated 3rd september, in light of the advice of ppra, ka gb division islamabad took the decision that, the rejection of s. al -fajr international islamabad was not in line, with the laid down regulation and over ruled the decision of the department and further directed to process the case considering s. al -fajr international islamabad as the successful bidder and conveyed vide ka gb letter no. pc -i dated 9th september, mean time contractor association of gilgit -baltistan and muhammad fahim haider lahore filed a writ petition in the chief court gilgit baltistan praying that all the bids may be rejected and recall the tenders. on 4th november, the panel of chief court rejected both the appeals on merit. in light of letter of ka gb and verdict of chief court the case was processed. s. al -fajr international islamabad has given a considerable rebate and red uced his proce from rs. to rs. -. the rebated prices has been approved by the principal accounting officer (chief secretary gilgit -baltistan) and the work awarded to the firm duly completing all the documents including integrity pac muhammad fahim haider lahore has submitted an appeal in supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan for leave to the judgment decree orders and the case is subjudice. it will not be out of place to mention here that some contractors had tried to get the contract through unfair means but when failed have tried to pressurize and blackmail the department by submitting appeals here and there. in light of the above mentioned facts, it is clear that the complaint has been based on wrong in formation and concocted stories it is therefore, requested that such complaints may not be entertained to avoid wastage of time. (babar yaqoob fateh muhammad) chief secretary gilgit -baltistan. chief planning monitoring cell, ministry of kashmir affairs gilgit -baltistan, islamabad. u. o. no. so (s) --() dated --. application of faheem haider pvt. limited for release of his security furnished in the form of insurance guarantee whereupon the order of release of bid security was passed: m. fahim haider (pvt) ltd. architects, designers, engineers and contractors karahci office: noor estate building shahrah -e-faisal tel: () lahore office: 2nd floor, block commercial area. d.h.a. tel: fax: () e-mail: fahimhaider 5th august, meh -rg--. executive engineer nahew division gilgit. page subject: supply installation, commissioning and te st running of turbo gen erating sets for hydro power in northern areas (l ot-a lot -b) dear sir reference your letter no. ee hw dated 5th august it is requested to please release the bid security submitted with the tender. thanking you very truly yours for m. fahi haider -sd- finance director the official and private respondent have filed separate concise statement to this petition which are reproduced hereunder: statement of facts necessitated by incorrect statements and fabricated documents annexed with cpla no. the water power department invited application from reputed firms contractors in through the print media, displaying the same on the website in pakistan of procurement regulatory authority (ppra) as per rules and regulations of ppra. in response firms applied for pre -qualification. the pre -qualification process was carried out by board of officers and five appli cants were pre -qualified namely:- s. heavy mechanical complex taxila. s. al -fajr international islamabad. s. tried china. s. fahim hai der la hore. s. design engineer lahore. each pre -qualified firm joint venture was invited to participate in the bidding subject to specified mandatory conditions. the most important requirement of any bid was that the bid should be accompanied by of quoted amount in the shape of deposit at call or bank guarantee from a scheduled bank of pakistan, without which the bid was to be summarily rejected. in the tender documents (a) and (b) schedule of prices and schedule of prices -equipment, erection, testing and commissioning, it was necessary to fill these forms site stations wise. out of the pre -qualified firms only four submitted tender documents: (a) hmc taxila quoted the highest price but without a bid bond and was re jected, for failure to comply with this mandatory requirement. (b) tried of china with a local partner, quoted the lowest price but also with out a bid bond and was summarily rejected. (c) the petitioner submitted the second highest bid after hmc. however, the peti tioner neither provided a deposit at call nor a bank guarantee but insuranc bonds and that too of less tha the required value. the bid was therefore to be summarily rejected. (d) the petitioner did not attach the documents annexed with the petition at page to with his bid. these are fabricated to present them in court. the original bid document submitted by the petitioner in the department can be produced if required. forms (a) and (b) of the tender documents did not specify the site station wise pri ce and were thus contrary to the requirement of the tender document. (e) the petitioner bid was rejected for the following reasons: (i) nonresponsive due to defectives pricing. (ii) prices of each site were not quoted separately and lump sum prices without giving det ails were quoted, which can not be evaluated. the quoted rates are also doubtful due to excessive cuttings and there are arithmetical mistakes page in calculation of the rates. the amount of bid security is also less than of the quoted amount which is voilat ive of statutory provision as contained in pec and public procurement rules both. the inadequate bid security bonds, so submitted by the petitioner were withdrawn vide application dated --, which signifies the facts that the petitioner had no objection on the process of bidding ranging from evaluation to rejection. (f) al-fajr international bid was the third highest or second lowest. it was responsive in every aspect and fully complied with all the bid requirement. the bid as submitted, was lowe than the petitioner bid by rs. crores. although al -fajr international bid could have been accepted on -- and contract awarded to al -fajr, however, out of abundant caution, the committee recommended calling for fresh tenders, which recommend ation was accepted by the chief secretary, gilgit baltistan. al-fajr international islamabad filed a representation to the federal minister for northern areas, who under the self governance order was the chairman, with powers and functions defined in the parent act as well as the rules of business. the chairman na being of the view that this was important for the federal government, called for a detailed examination of the case by the federal secretary for northern areas. the primary and only issu was whether a single tender could be accepted? expert opinion and advice was sought from ppra who vide their opinion dated -- advised as under: government of pakistan public procurement regulatory authority (cabinet division) subject: clarif ication on acceptance of single tender. reference kashmir affairs northern areas division d.o. letter no. pc dated 2nd september, on the above subject. there is no restriction under public procurement rules, on acceptance of a ingle bid received in response to a tender notice if the same fulfills requirements of the procuring agency translated through qualification as well as evaluation criteria. public procurement rules, restrict the procuring agencies to accept lowest eva luated bid which as been defined under rule (h) of the public procurement rules, as: a. a bid most closely conforming to evaluation criteria and other conditions specified in the bidding document, and b. having lowest evaluated cost, any bidder which ha been declared as technically non-responsive should not be considered for competition even if his financial offer is comparatively lower. sd muhammad saleemullah director ph: on receipt of this advice, the chairman northern areas taking in to account the inevitable delay in supply of electricity, the inevitable rise in costs, the right of al -fajr international, who have a vast experience in the gilgit baltistan, directed to finalize the matter with al -fajr international islamabad. the bid rice was further reduced by al -fajr international giving a rebate of rs. million and contract executed on --. page the department and gilgit -baltistan administration had previously responded in detail to ppra through its parent ministry vide heir letter no. so (s) --() dated --. the entire process was transparent and decision taken on merits. mobilization advance, guarantee have been revceived and mobilization advance released in part. the petitioner is trying to unravel an ongoing contract reached after great delay, whose completion in time is vital for the people of the area. the petitioner has previously been unsuccessful in for a similar project, which was also won by al -fajr. the petitioner even then, as now raise hue and cry. that the writ petition has rightly been dismissed as the same was not maintainable for availability of alternate remedy. that the petitioner has concealed material facts from the court, hence the writ was not maintainable. that after with drawal of bid security on his own application, the petitioner has lost locus standi. dated 14th may -sd- chief engineer water power department gilgit -baltistan -sd- secretary water power department gilgit -baltistan -sd- advocate general gilgit -baltistan the concise statement of respondent no. is as under: concise statement on behalf of respondent no., al –fajr international the respondent most respectfully submits in reply to the main petition. preliminary objections: that the petitione s. m. fahim haider (pvt) limited is not an aggrieved person in the matter for the reason that the bid submitted by the petitioner was totally and absolutely unresponsive, as the petitioner though pre -qualified, had miserably failed to comply with the andatory requirements conditions for participating in the bidding for the supply, installation, commissioning and test and running of turbo generators sets for hydro power projects in na and his bid had to be summarily rejected. the documents at pages to were not submitted along with the bid and have been fabricated later. this thirteen firms applied for pre -qualification, out of which five () were pre qualified and four () of them submitted bids. three () including the petitioner bid, out of the four () bids, were found to be un-responsive. respondent no. bid was the only bid, which was found to be technically and financially fully responsive. it had to be accepted on .., but was erroneously ignored. the petitioner has falsely asserted that the petitioner had quoted the lowest rates and respondent no. had quoted the highest rates respondent no. was lower than the unresponsive bid of the petitioner by rs. million. the petitioner has deliberately willfully concealed and withheld material documents from this page the petitioner having failed in the particip atory process of bidding, is trying to sabotage a public project, that would provide electricity to the people of gilgit basltistan, a process that commenced in culminating in award of the contract to respondent no. on ... the gilgit balti stan contractors association (regd,) having filed wp no. on .., the petitioner filed in the high court by the petitioner on .. was also hit by laches, in the circumstances. the public interest project of providing electricity in the sh ortest possible time will be severely jeopardized by any further delay and will most certainly lead to huge cost increase, in view of the falling value of the rupee and the rising value of the chinese yuan. the parties and in particular, respondent no. ha ve taken irreversible steps in the matter by: (a) arranging for and submitting performance guarantee for rs. hundred and fifty million. (b) advance payment guarantee for rupees four hundred and fifty million. (c) firm contracts executed with equipment suppliers from china, creating corresponding rights and heavy liabilities. (d) receipt of post mobilization advance in part. the petitioner has been granted the complete relief at the ad -interim stage through ... the petitioner has not challenged the award of contract which wasexecuted by the respondent no. after the price was further lowered by crores rupees in negotiations carried out by the chief secretary, gilgit -baltistan and secretary water power, gb and has limited himself to an earlier situati on, rendering his petition incompetent. the petitioner having taken back even the inadequate and non -compliant insurance bond on .., had has thereafter, no locus standi in the matter. under the northern areas governance order, the federal minister for kashmir affairs and northern areas was the chairman of northern areas and the head of the government. appeal by respondent no. was therefore properly filed to the chairman, northern areas and the head of the government and the one to whom the represen tation could be addressed. the petitioner had also addressed an appeal representation to the chairman na, being the only competent authority, as being the government, having the power to call for any case and give orders through the secretary. this posit ion emanates from northern areas rules of business and northern areas self governance order the petitioner has attempted to give an impression that the chairman, northern area immediately accepted the representation of respondent no. which is far from the truth. (i) on the representation of respondent no. dated .., chairman northern areas, taking notice of the continuous delay and costs rise, sought further details from secretary ka and na. (ii) the secretary ka na sought report and opinion on the acceptance of single tender which qualified in all respects vide his memo dated .., which was responded to. the public procurement regulatory authority is the only body with the expertise to advise on the matter. (iii) in the light of the response, the ch airman na made the decision communicated on .., which was strictly on merit and in the larger public interest. (iv) detailed negotiations were thereafter held on the price with chief secretary, gb and secretary water power, gb and the price was reduced by rs. million by respondent no.. (v) the contract was awarded to respondent no. on ... an entirely new case is sought to be set up before the supreme appellate court. the petitioner has not challenged the order of acceptance of the respo ndent bid or the award of contract, either before the chief court of before this respondent no. has a vast experience of working in the northern areas since while the petitioner has none. nearly of the power proj ects installed in the northern areas, have been done directly or indirectly be respondent no. these projects number more than and machinery equipment turbo generators installed number more than page in contrast, the petitioner has zero experience in the area and also lost a major contract in na to respondent no. in the year the petitioner sole effort is to stall the execution of a project, for which his bid was summarily and correctly rejected. on merits: para the overall superintendence and control over projects and public works remained with the chairman, northern areas. para the participation in the bidding by any pre -qualified party, was subject to compliance with the mandatory conditions duly communicated, which were violated by he petitioner. para the bids submitted by the petitioner did not comply with the mandatory requirements and constituted a non -responsive id, meriting summary rejection. the petitioner attempted to correct the bids after the bids were opened (not before) and accepted that they were not in conformity and took back the insurance bonds in ... para tried gave the lowest bid but without a bid bond. the fourth bid of respondent no. was not accepted because the rates were high. hut under the erron eous assumption that a single tender could not be accepted. para respondent no. made the representation to the federal minister for kashmir affairs and gilgit -baltistan in his capacity as chairman na in terms of the northern areas governance order under which the chairman na was head of the government. para the public procurement and regulatory authority (ppra) is the only statutory authority capable and competent to advise the matter. the relevant documents though available have been withhel d. para the letter dated .. issued by the federal secretary was preceded by advice, opinion and detailed discussions, including with the chief secretary, na gilgit. para the petitioner bid was palpably unresponsive, while the non -award of the contract to respondent no. on .. was under an erroneous assumption. the petitioner has failed to challenge the execution of contract with and by respondent no. grounds: the chairman na was the head of the government to whom a representation was a lso addressed by the petitioner on .., the non —award to respondent no. was in fact a non -compliance with the public procurement principles and rules. the petitioner had no locus standi after his bid was found to be non -responsive. this was establi shed in his presence on ... the decision to re -advertise was wrong and against the public interest. it would have led to great delay in providing electricity and huge costs overrun. this wrong was corrected after due deliberation by the head of the overnment. the bid the petitioner was non -compliant and non -responsive, which was admitted publicly by him on ... there was no ambiguity in concluding that the petitioner bid was non -compliant and non-responsive. this non -compliance and non -respons iveness of the bid was floating on the surface and required no detailed analysis. even the non -responsive bid was higher by rs. million as compared to the bid of respondent no.. the petitioner seeks a fishing roving enquiry about facts already establi shed. the miscalculation argument is an after thought. there was no motive to favour anybody. in fact the evaluation committee proceeded on an incorrect assumption, by not awarding the contract to respondent no. on ... the petitioner neither submitt ed deposit a call nor a bank guarantee. insurance bonds were rightly rejected an the petitioner took them back on ... the petitioner documents attached with the petition are different from the ones attached with bid. it therefore prayed that the pe tition be dismissed with the costs. the writ petition was dismissed by the chief court on short ground that writ petitioner without availing the remedy of complaint before the procuring agency in terms of rule of public procurement rules could ot invoke the writ jurisdiction of chief court in the page matter and that an unsuccessful bidder would have no cause of action to challenge the order of secretary and also had no locus standi to file the writ petition. advocate, supreme court of pakistan learned counsel for the petitioner in support of this petition has raised the following contentions in his address before the court. a. the petitioner and respondent no. both indirectly availed the remedy of complaint before procu ring agency against the rejection of their bid, under rule of public procurement rules by filing representation before the chairman northern areas, but the secretary ka na without notice to the petitioner passed an exprte order in the representati on of respondent adverse to the interest of petitioner, therefore, the dismissal of writ petition by the chief court on the ground that the remedy of complaint was not availed was improper exercise of writ jurisdiction. b. the order of the secretary ka na di vision by virtue of which the order of bidding committee of the department, for recall of tender was set aside, was mala fide and having been passed for extraneous consideration in utter disregard to the principle of natural the element of direct or indirect undue favour or personal interest is considered extraneous consideration which would make the order mala fide. c. the secretary ka na division passed the order on .. and on the same date gilgit -baltistan page (empow erment and self governance) order was enforced by virtue of which prime minister of pakistan was substituted as chairman northern areas and minister for ka na ceased to be the chairman northern areas, therefore, without the approval of prime minister of pakistan, the order of secretary ka na division on the representation of respondent no. would be without lawful authority and of no legal effect. d. the representation filed by the petitioner before the minister chairman northern areas was not attended ith the representation of respondent no. rather it was rejected without providing an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner and he was condemned unheard in utter disregard to the principle of natural justice, consequently, the order the secre tary ka na division behind the back of petitioner was not sustainable in law. e. the chief court while dismissing the writ petition on technical grounds has not exercise the jurisdiction in proper manner and order of the chief court being suffering from jur isdictional error would be deemed to have been passed without lawful authority. f. the cognizance of the matter taken by the chairman northern areas and secretary ka na division was mala fide with extraneous consideration and order of secretary ka na divisio was not in public interest rather it was motivated to extend undue favour to respondent no. at the page instance of minister for ka na which was unfair and unjust in law. g. the discretion exercised by the secretary ka na division being contrary to the spirit of law would seriously reflect upon his bona fide whereas, chief court dismissed the writ petition in undue haste on technical grounds without considering the case on merits which was also not roper exercise of discretionary jurisdiction. h. that the manne in which the order was passed would evidently suggest that the matter was not dealt with fairly and in transparent manner, therefore, even if the order the secretary was not suffering from any jurisdictional defect, the same being not transpare nt would be deemed to have been tainted with mala fide and void in law. i. the decision of a public authority in administrative discretion involving rights of individual has the character of quasi judicial decision and if such a decision is made in departur to the normal judicial procedure, it would not be considered a legal decision. the learned counsel in support of his arguments has placed reliance on messrs ramna pipe and general mills (pvt.) limited messrs sui northern gas pipe lines (pvt.) and others scmr ), airport support services v. airport manager scmr ), ibrahim shamsi v. bashir ahmed scmr ), federation of pakistan v. saeed ahmed khan (pld sc ), page yousaf ali v. muhammad aslam zia (pld sc and awabzada muhammad mir khan v. the controller of estate duty (pld sc ). at the first instance raising objection to the maintainability of writ etition before the chief court has contended that the writ petition was filed subsequent to the award of contract to respondent no. and petitioner suppressing the material fact regarding the award of contract has mislead the court to believe that the ord er the secretary ka na division has not yet taken effect and having not come to the court with clean hands would not be entitled to any discretionary relief either in the writ petition or in the present petition. the next objection of learned co unsel is hat as per direction contained in letter dated -- the qualified bidders were required to furnish bank guarantee or deposit call slip for participation in the bid, whereas, the petitioner instead of furnishing bank guarantee or deposit sli p, which was a mandatory condition for participation in the bid provided insurance guarantee and having not fulfilled the essential pre-requisite for participation in bid would have no right to claim evaluation of his bid for the purpose of competition. th bid of petitioner was rejected as non-responsive for more than one reasons and immediately on rejection of bid, he got released the insurance guarantee and waived the right of further contest, therefore he would have no legal claim for adjudication befor any departmental or judicial forum and consequently, no exception would be taken to the order of page secretary ka na division and the order of dismissal of writ petition by the chief court. the contention of the learned counsel on merits of the case are as under: a. the financially and technically responsive bid of respondent was rejected for the consideration firstly, that bid was non comp etitive and secondly it was not lowest, whereas both these reasons have no substance. the law would not permit rejection of single responsive bid for mere reason that it was noncompetitive or that it was not lowest in comparison to non responsive bids. the administrative decision of chairman departmental bidding committee being wrong and arbitrary was questioned by the respo ndent by way of filing a representation before the chairman northern areas for interference in the matter in exercise of the power conferred on him under article of northern areas governance order read with rule of the rules of business of provinc ial government of gilgit baltistan and the same was ultimately disposed of as a complaint under rule of public procurement rules, b. that no illegality was committed by the chairman northern areas and secretary ka na in taking cognizance of the matter or any procedural or substantial error of law in the subsequent proceeding to suggest any element of malice or bad faith. the perusal of the representation of the petitioner before the chairman northern areas would show page that he having acknowledg ed the fairness and integrity of the minister for ka na chairman northern areas sought his interference in the matter and neither in the writ petition nor in the present petition pleaded malice or any personal interest of chairman northern areas instead the learned counsel for the petitioner during the course of argument before this court attributing unfounded allegation of undue favour and personal interest has made an attempt to create an impression of mala fide with the assertion that order was motivated for extraneous consideration. c. that mala fide is a question of fact which is required to be specifically proved through the evidence and cannot be presumed merely on the basis of general allegation in absence of any evidence direct or circumstantial, therefor e, mere oral assertion of malice in law or fact or personal interest would not make the order of a public authority mala fide. d. the presumption of regularity is attached with the official acts and business and unless this initial presumption is rebutted th rough the reliable evidence, the law would not permit for raising of a contrary presumption of unfairness, unjust and mala fide on the basis of general allegation. in reply to the question relating to the violation of principle of natural learned counsel argued that right of hearing is not recognized without any legal right and an unsuccessful bidder would have no legal right to claim right of hearing page before a quasi judicial or judicial forum and resist the claim of successf ul bidder. he added that since order the secretary was no prejudicial to the interest of petitioner in respect of any of his legal right, therefore he was not an aggrieved person either in the proceedings before the secretary ka na or in the wri petition rather he being a stranger in the proceedings before the secretary ka na could not claim right of hearing in the representation of respondent no. and having not been able to offer a responsive bid would have no legitimate right to raise any ob jection to the acceptance of responsive bid of respondent for grant of contract. in support of the above contentions learned counsel has placed reliance on arsalla khan v. bashir ahmed (pld sc ), ramna pipe and general mills v. sui northern gas pip lines scmr ), pakistan state oil company v. muhammad naqi scmr ), ittehad cargo service v. syed tasneem hussain naqvi (pld sc ), petrosin corporation v. oil and gas development company scmr ), kay bee international pv t. ltd. islamabad through managing director v. secretary to the government of punjab, industries and mineral development department (pld sc ), petrosin corporation pvt. ltd. and others v. mol pakistan oil and gas co. and others (pld sc a nd afzal motors company pvt. ltd v. province of sindh and others cld ). while dealing with the question of legal rights of the petitioner in the matter in hand learned counsel contented that in an public auction an unsuccessful bidder would have right to question the acceptance of bid of successful bidder in equitable jurisdiction before the administrative authorities or the courts of law and mere reason that page recommendation of bidding committee in respect of recall of tenders was not contrary to the law would not create a legal right to claim re auction for the benefit of an unsuccessful bidder to be enforced at law by way of a remedy of writ petition in equitable jurisdiction. the contention of the learned counsel that in the present case there is no direct or circumstantial evidence to raise a presumption of mala fide and mere fact that the cognizance of the matter was taken by the secretary on the instruction of minister would not make the order of the secretary unfair, unjust and unreasonable in law. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan with reference to the comments filed on behalf of respondent no. to has contended that the chairman northern areas being controlling authority of northern areas under northern areas governance orde r, was competent to entertain the representation of respondent no. and examine the matter to ascertain the legality or otherwise of the order of chairman bidding ommittee of department in the public interest and that secretary ka na division being head of administrative division procuring a gency of the federal government was competent to deal with the matter under public procurement rules, and pass appropriate order in public interest. the learned advocate general argued that writ jurisdiction of chief court cannot be ordinarily invoked in the matters of public auctions or contracts, unless it is shown on record that the required standard of transparency was lacking in the transaction whereas in the present case no element of mala fide, undue i nfluence or unfairness has been brought on record to plead that order the secretary ka na division was not transparent. page the contract was awarded to respondent no. on the basis of order of secretary ka na division before filing of the writ peti tion and on his furnishing secur ity with performance guarantee work order has also been issued to him with mobilization adva nce and since the order of secretary ka na division has already been implemented and given effect, which has created valuable rights in favour of respondent no. therefore reversal of the said order at this stage would result in cancellation of contract with the consequence of heavy financial loss and damage to the government. that in pursuance of the order of secretary ka na divisio the bidding committee of department having negotiated with the respondent no. for reduction of bid money got the same reduced almost equal to the lowest bid which was much below to the bid of petitioner, as a result of which the difference of responsiv bid of respondent and nonresponsive bids if any stood removed, therefore, the contention that in consequence to the grant of contract to respondent no. financial loss would be caused to the exchequer was baseless. learned advocate general urged that recall of tender in the given facts would not only cause delay in the project but also would amount to protect the interest of petitioner at the cost of extra burden on the exchequer on account of increase in the price and cost of project which is not in he public interest. the chief engineer water and power department, government of gilgit -baltistan present in court has stated that the transaction was quite fair and transparent and since the bid of al-fajr international (respondent no. was rejected for irrelevant consideration in law, the secretary ka na division was fully justified page to accept his representation and further recall of the bid tender would not only increase the cost of project but would also cause delay in the project which was not in public interest. we having heard the learned counsel for the parties, have considered their respective contention in the light of the facts of the case and law on the subject. the writ petition was dismissed by the chief court for the reasons firstly, th at petitioner having not been able to fulfill prerequisite of providing bank guarantee or deposit slip which was an essential condition for participation in the bid would have no right to contest the matter before the secretary or locus standi to challenge the order of secretary before the chief court and secondly, the petitioner having withdrawn the insurance guarantee provided by him as substitute of bank guarantee immediately on rejection of his bid by the bidding committee would have no right to raise a ny claim in the matter either before procuring agency or before the courts of law. this may not be incorrect to say in the normal cases that after withdrawal of the earnest money or bid security a participant of the auction may have no locus standi to cla im any right in public auction and also may not be able to challenge the auction in the extra ordinary writ jurisdiction but notwithstanding the general rule and technical objection the court may entertain a petition in public interest and we without takin any exception to the well settled principle of law and the observation made by the supreme court of pakistan in kay bee international (pvt) ltd, islamabad v. secretary to the government of punjab, industries and mineral development department, lahore (pl sc that ordinarily writ jurisdiction is not invokeable in the page cases of public auctions and contracts involving contractual obligation and an unsuccessful bidder may have no legitimate right to call interference of court in discretionary jurisd iction hold that the principle of locus standi is not strictly applicable in the cases of public importance and even a stranger can invoke the jurisdiction of court in such cases. learned counsel for the parties have also conceded that in a case of public importance, the court may ignore the technical objections and interfere in a matter in which decision was made adverse to the public interest or in an unfair, unreasonable or unjust manner. there is no cavil to the proposition that the question of locus standi is a material question for determining the right of a person to challenge the order in a writ petition but this is a settled proposition that in case of an adverse order even a person who is not party in the proceedings can invoke jurisdiction of the court and this court in exercise of extraordinary power of judicial review under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order may not give any importance to the question of locus standi in such cases of public importance. th supreme court of pakistan in a number of cases observed that in a case of public and national importance or in a case involving the question relating to the enforcement of fundamental rights of the people, the objection of locus standi is of no significa nce and we hold accordingly. the objection relating to the maintainability of the writ petition in the present case is also not well founded in the light of the settled law that in the cases of public importance the jurisdiction of the court can be invoke by any person in public interest. the supreme court of page pakistan in benazir bhutto case (pld sc held that in a matter of public importance relating to the enforcement of fundamental right, the technical objection regarding maintainability of a constitution petition before the court is not entertainable. therefore, the dismissal of writ petition by the chief court on technical ground was not proper as the matter involving important questions of law would require decision on merits in the interes of substantial justice. after hearing the learned counsel for the parties and examined the documents placed on record with their assistance, we in view of the importance of questions of law and facts involved in this matter, without going into the techn icalities of law would like to examine the legality of the order of secretary ka na in the light of settled principle of law that a decision taken or order the public functionaries if lacked procedural or substantive transparency or is found tain ted with the element of mala fide, unfair, unjust or is based on unreasonable consideration or is the result of improper exercise of discretion vested in a public authority or is found adverse to the public interest is not immune from the judicial scrutiny of the courts. before proceeding further, we would like to discuss the question relating the right of hearing before the executive authorities in such matters in the light of principle of natural justice. this is settled law that if an order adverse to the right of a person is an authority, behind his back and without notice, the order being violative of principle of natural justice, would not be sustainable in law. the principle of natural quasi judicial and by administrative authorities in the page matters which involves rights of others but the principle of natural the principle of natural the same would be considered to have been passed in violation of principle of natural justice, but if a decision is made without any adverse interest or causing prejudice to any legal or substantive right of any person he may have no right of hearing in the light of principle of natural justice. in the resent case, the petitio ner claimed right of hearing without any substantive right rather he being interested in fresh bid in terms of order of bidding committee contested the legitimate claim of respondent for grant of contract. the petitioner having offe red a nonresponsive bid would have no right of contract and also would not be considered an aggrieved person but he having the interest to participate in the re auction, may have right to defend the order of recall of bid tender. therefore, the proposition for consideration would be whether the petitioner has any substantial right arising out of the order of bidding committee enforceable at law which has been infringed by order of secretary ka na under challenge. the bid is an invitation to offer and unles it is finally accepted or rejected by the competent authority no right enforceable at law is created in favour of any bidder and an unsuccessful bidder may have no right to claim re -auction unless the order of acceptance of a bid in the public auction pa ssed by an executive or administrative authority is declared illegal. the law is that if an order of acceptance of bid in public page contract is blended with mala fide, unfair, unjust, arbitrary exercise of power or lack of transparency in the transaction may not create any legal right in favour of a successful bidder. the public procurement contracts of federal government of pakistan are governed by ppra law and gilgit -baltistan is is under administrative control of federal government, therefore, no exception an be taken to this special law for procurement contracts of government of gilgit -baltistan. this being so, the legality of the order of bidding committee and the order of secretary ka na division would require examination in the light of the provision of the ppra ordinance and the rules framed thereunder. the administrative law is part of constitutional law which relates to the administration of the affairs of state and subject to the control of judicial authorities of abuse or access of exercise of discr etion in the matter involving public right the administrative authorities are independent in their functions within the scope of their power and jurisdiction under the law. the administrative authorities cannot act in departure to the policy of law and als have no absolute prerogative to act and exercise administrative power in violation of the civil rights of the people rather these authorities are required to exercise the power in strict observance of law to accomplish their duty. the administrative powe and quasi judicial power with the public authorities is differentiated on the basis of the nature of power conferred on a person and frame work of law under which such power is conferred as well as the manner of exercise of power and the conseque ntial or der passed in a matter. in the civilized societies all organs of the state are supposed to be regulated and controlled by rule of law and concept of rule of law may loose it vitality if the state functionaries are not charged with the page duty of discharging heir functions in a fair and just manner showing that administrative actions were taken justly and fairly which were not arbitrary and capricious. the dividing line of administrative and quasi judicial power is that in quasi judicial decisions the procedur al formalities of law are considered inherent for exercise of power and these formalities are almost merely facilities of law which may have no substantive effect on the ultimate decision but violation of these procedural formalities may create doubt in re spect of the transparency of the decision and consequently we conclude that an executive authority while exercising administra tive powers under statutory law or exercising the quasi judicial power is required to pass an order in respect of the rights of a person in judicious manner so that not only the rule of propriety but also the principle of natural notwithstanding the fact that petitioner had no vested right to resist the claim of respondent, he would be entitled to the right of hearing in the application filed by him in the matter to satisfy the requirement of natural he would have a right to participate in re -auction subject to the fulfillment of mandatory conditions. in strict sense the respondent had an ascertainable claim with an enforceable right under the administrative law, hereas the claim of petitioner in respect of his non responsive bid or participation in re -auction on rejection of representation of respondent no. was not a remedial right or a superior right in law to be enforced in preference to the right of responden t, still the principle of natural should have been provided fair chance of hearing in support of his claim. this is right of a person subject to the fulfillment of required qualification to participate in the public auction and in case of illegal or arbitrary rejection of his bid, he may avail the legal remedy for redressal of his grievance in accordance with law. the petitioner and respondent no. to participat ing in the public auction for the contract of supply of turbines for hydro power project in gilgit -baltistan offered bids and bidding committee of the water and power department, government of gilgit -baltistan on opening of the bids having found the bid offered by al -fajr international responsive and all other bids including the bid of petitioner nonresponsive recommended for rejection of all bids with observation that no doubt the bid of respondent no. was responsive but it was not only noncompetitive but was also not lowest, therefore bid tender may be recalled. the respondent no. being aggrieved of the order of rejection of his bid instead of filing a complaints under rule of the public procurement rules, before the procuring agency or direc tly approaching the court filed a representations before the minister for ka na chairman northern areas for interference whereas petitioner also filed a similar representation and both these representations would demand to have been disposed of by virtue the .. secretary ka na division, government of pakistan. the contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner that the secretary ka na division without attending the representation filed by the petitioner to the chairma northern areas or giving any notice in the said representation passed a unilateral order in favour of page respondent no. behind his back in colorful exercise of the power without considering the most fair and reasonable recommendation of departmental commi ttee for recall of tenders which was, if not the competent authority or with the approval of procuring agency still itwould not be liable to be interfered by the secretary in his discretion has no substance. this is to be seen that the secretary exercising the power of competent authority of procuring agency while proceeding under public procurement rules, taking care of proportionality in exercise of discretion for rejecting or accepting the bid of respondent no. was conscious of the impor tance of the matter and consequently while exercising discretionary jurisdiction passed the order on the basis of opinion of ppra strictly in accordance with law. the detail scrutiny of facts and circumstances of the case in the light of law on the subject, would not show any substantive right of the petitioner which has been adversely effected by reason of passing the order under challenge behind his back. this is noticeable that respondent no. was also not provided personal hearing and his representatio was decided in his absence. be that as it may the grievance of the petitioner has been redressed in the subsequent proceedings before the chief court and this court in this petition in which he has been heard at length on all issues. it appears from the order of the secretary that no notice of hearing was given to any party and order was passed as his administrative function on the basis of the opinion of ppra which has the exclusive jurisdiction to deal with such cases and the opinion of ppra having binding force for the procuring agencies would have been given preference over the views of bidding committee, therefore, the order of secretary would not be suffering page from any legal defect calling for interference of the courts and mere fact that notice was ot given to the petitioner in the matter would not be a sufficient reason or substantial defect to declare the order invalid. in the light of the fact in the background, the essential question requiring determination in the present petition would be whet her chairman northern areas and secretary ka na division were legally competent to exercise the administrative power and decide the matter and whether the order was not passed in good faith and public interest. the main emphasize of learned counsel for pe titioner was that notwithstanding the presumption of regularity and correctness attracted with official record and the proceedings, the manner in which the representation was entertained by the chairman northern areas and was dealt with by the secretary ka na division, the element of unfairness, malice and impairment of public interest would not be excluded, therefore, no legal cover can be given to the order of secretary. there can be no exception to the settled principle of law that in the cases of public interest if an element of partiality or undue favour or a slight substantial irregularity is found on record which may create doubt in the mind of a common man regarding the transparency of the transaction, the court may not hesitate to interfere in the atter. learned counsel however conceded that mala fide is a question of fact or mixed question of law and fact which must be specifically proved and without any evidence in support thereof no presumption of mala fide of fact can be raised, but at the same time asserted that presumption of mala fide as a mix question of law and fact can be raised on the basis of the attending circumstance and in the present case even if the bidding committee of department of provincial government was not competent page to accept or reject the bid, the recommendation for the recall of the tenders being quite fair and in accordance with the law were not ignorable, therefore the interference of the secretary ka na division in the matter at the instance of minister for ka na would evi dently suggest the element of personal interest and undue favour and notwithstanding the fact that order of secretary was not suffering from any procedural error or substantial defect, the same being not a fair order would have no legal value and this cour in exercise of the power of judicial review may declare the order as illegal. the question of law and mixed question of law and facts raised in this petition since require examination in the light of provisions of ppra ordinance and rules framed the reunder, therefore we consider it proper to reproduce the relevant provisions of the ordinance and the rules for better appreciation of the propositions raised in the present petition. the ppra ordinance was promulgated for procurement of goods and se rvices in the public sector and under section (e) of the ordinance goods have been defined as under: (e) goods means articles and objects of every kind and description including raw materials, products, equipment, machinery, spares and commodities i any form and includes services incidental to installation, transport, maintenance and similar obligations related to the supply of goods if the value of these services does not exceed the value of such goods; misprocurement is defined in clause (h) of section as under: (h) misprocurement means public procurement in contravention of any provision of this ordinance, any rules, regulations, orders or instructions made there under or any other law in respect of, or relating to, public procurement; the procuring agency has been defined under clause (j) in the following manner: (j) procuring agency means i. any ministry, division, department or any office of the federal government; page ii. ii. any authority, corporation, body or organization established by or under a federal law or which is owned or controlled by the federal government; section of the ordinance empowers the federal government to issue directions as under: power of the federal government to issue directives the federal government ay, as and when it considers necessary, issue directives to the authority on matters of policy, and such directives shall be binding on the authority the function to be performed by public procurement regularity authority and authority to be exercised by the board constituted thereunder is provided as under: functions and powers of the authority. () subject to other provisions of this ordinance, the authority may take such measures and exercise such powers as may be necessary for improving governa nce, management, transparency, accountability and quality of public procurement of goods, services and works in the public sector. () without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by sub section (), the authority may (a) monitor applicat ion of the laws, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in respect of, or relating to, procurement; (b) monitor the implementation of and evaluate laws, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in respect of, or relating to, inspection or quali ty of goods, services and (c) recommend to the federal government revisions in or formulation of new laws, rules and policies in respect of or related to public procurement; (d) make regulations and lay down codes of ethics and procedures for publi procurement, inspection or quality of goods, services and works; (e) monitor public procurement practices and make recommendations to improve governance, transparency, accountability and quality of public procurement; (f) monitor overall performa nce of procuring agencies and make recommendations for improvements in their institutional set up; (g) provide and coordinate assistance to procuring agencies for developing and improving their institutional framework and public procurement activities; (h) submit reports to the government in respect of public procurement activities of procuring agencies; (i) call any functionary of procuring agencies to provide assistance in its functions and call for any information from such agencies in pursua nce of its objectives and functions; (j) perform any other function assigned to it by the federal government or that is incidental or consequential to any of the aforesaid functions. page the authority under section may delegate its powers and functio to the managing director or one or more members or its officers as under: section of the ordinance empowers the federal government to make rules: power of the federal government to make rules the federal government may, by notification in the official gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this ordinance. the federal government in exercise of the power conferred under section of ppra ordinance has framed public procurement rules wherein certain terms have been defined as under: (a) bid means a tender, or an offer, in response to an invitation, by a person, consultant, firm, company or an organization expressing his or its willingness to undertake a specified task at a price; (e) contract means an agreement enforceable by law; (h) lowest evaluated bid means, (i) a bid most closely conforming to evaluation criteria and other conditions specified in the bidding document; and (ii) having lowest evaluated cost; the principle of procurement has been laid down in rule of the above rules as under: principles of procurements. procuring agencies, while engaging in procureme nts, shall ensure that the procurements are conducted in a fair and transparent manner, the object of procurement brings value for money to the agency and the procurement process is efficient and economical. rule and of the rules relate to the plannin and limitation on splitting or regrouping of proposed procurement as under: procurement planning. within one year of commencement of these rules, all procuring agencies shall devise a mechanism, for planning in detail for all proposed procurement with the object of realistically determining the requirements of the procuring agency, within its available resources, delivery time or completion date and benefits that are likely to accrue to the procuring agency in future. delegation the authority may, by such conditions and limitations as it may deem fit to impose, delegate any of its functions or powers to the managing director, or one more members or any of its officers except the power to (a) approve audited accounts; (b) recommend exemption under section and (c) make or repeal regulation made under this ordinance. page limitation on splitting or regrouping of proposed procurement. save as otherwise provided and subject to the regulation made by the authority, with the prior approval of the federal government, a procuring agency shall announce in an appropriate manner all proposed procurements for each financial year and shall proceed accordingly without any splitting or regrouping of the procurements so planned. the annual requirements thus determined would be advertised in advance on the authority website as well as on the website of the pr ocuring agency in case the procuring agency has its own website. the procedure of prequalification process is given under rule of the rules is as under: principal method of procurement. save as otherwise provided hereinafter, the procuring ag encies shall use open competitive bidding as the principal method of procurement for the procurement of goods, services and works. the bid will be called by the procuring agency in accordance with the procedure provided in the rules and security for bid i furnished under rule in the following manner: bid security the procuring agency may require the bidders to furnish a bid security not exceeding five per cent of the bid price. rule to of the rules contain the procedure for opening, evaluation and rejection of the bids as under: opening of bids. () the date for opening of bids and the last date for the submission of bids shall be the same. bids shall be opened at the time specified in the bidding documents. the bids shall be ope ned at least thirty minutes after the deadline for submission of bids. () all bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of the bidders or their representatives who may choose to be present, at the time and place announced prior to the bidding. the pr ocuring agency shall read aloud the unit price as well as the bid amount and shall record the minutes of the bid opening. all bidders in attendance shall sign an attendance sheet. all bids submitted after the time prescribed shall be rejected and returned without being opened. evaluation criteria. procuring agencies shall formulate an appropriate evaluation criterion listing all the relevant information against which a bid is to be evaluated. such evaluation criteria shall form an integral part of th bidding documents. failure to provide for an unambiguous evaluation criteria in the bidding documents shall amount to mis -procurement. evaluation of bids. page () all bids shall be evaluated in accordance with the evaluation criteria and other terms a nd conditions set forth in the prescribed bidding documents. save as provided for in sub -clause (iv) of clause (c) of rule no evaluation criteria shall be used for evaluation of bids that had not been specified in the bidding documents. () for the pur poses of comparison of bids quoted in different currencies, the price shall be converted into a single currency specified in the bidding documents. the rate of exchange shall be the selling rate, prevailing on the date of opening of bids specified in the idding documents, as notified by the state bank of pakistan on that day. () a bid once opened in accordance with the prescribed procedure shall be subject to only those rules, regulations and policies that are in force at the time of issue of notice for invitation of bids. clarification of bids. () no bidder shall be allowed to alter or modify his bid after the bids have been opened. however the procuring agency may seek and accept clarifications to the bid that do not change the substance of the bid. () any request for clarification in the bid, made by the procuring agency shall invariably be in writing. the response to such request shall also be in writing. discriminatory and difficult conditions. save as otherwise provided, no procuring agency shall introduce any condition, which discriminates between bidders or that is considered to be met with difficulty. in ascertaining the discriminatory or difficult nature of any condition reference shall be made to the ordinary practices of that tr ade, manufacturing, construction business or service to which that particular procurement is related. rejection of bids. () the procuring agency may reject all bids or proposals at any time prior to the acceptance of a bid or proposal. the procurin agency shall upon request communicate to any supplier or contractor who submitted a bid or proposal, the grounds for its rejection of all bids or proposals, but is not required to justify those grounds. () the procuring agency shall incur no liability, solely by virtue of its invoking sub-rule () towards suppliers or contractors who have submitted bids or proposals. () notice of the rejection of all bids or proposals shall be given promptly to all suppliers or contractors that submitted bids or propo sals. re -bidding. () if the procuring agency has rejected all bids under rule it may call for a re-bidding. () the procuring agency before invitation for re -bidding shall assess the reasons for rejection and may revise specifications, evaluati on criteria or any other condition for bidders as it may deem necessary. announcement of evaluation reports. page procuring agencies shall announce the results of bid evaluation in the form of a report giving justification for acceptance or rejection of bids at least ten days prior to the award of procure ment contract. the procedure for acceptance of bid and award of procurement contract is provided in rule to as under: acceptance of bids. the bidder with the lowest evaluated bid, if not i conflict with any other law, rules, regulations or policy of the federal government, shall be awarded the procurement contract, within the original or extended period of bid validity. performance guarantee. where needed and clearly expressed in th bidding documents, the procuring agency shall require the successful bidder to furnish a performance guarantee which shall not exceed ten per cent of the contract amount. limitation on negotiations. save as otherwise provided there shall be no neg otiations with the bidder having submitted the lowest evaluated bid or with any other bidder: provided that the extent of negotiation permissible shall be subject to the regulations issued by the authority. confidentiality. the procuring agency sha ll keep all information regarding the bid evaluation confidential until the time of the announcement of the evaluation report in accordance with the requirements of rule the forum for redressal of grievances and settlement of disputes is provided in rule to as under: redressal of grievances by the procuring agency. () the procuring agency shall constitute a committee comprising of odd number of persons, with proper powers and authorizations, to address the complaints of bidders that ma occur prior to the entry into force of the procurement contract. () any bidder feeling aggrieved by any act of the procuring agency after the submission of his bid may lodge a written complaint concerning his grievances not later than fifteen days afte the announcement of the bid evaluation report under rule () the committee shall investigate and decide upon the complaint within fifteen days of the receipt of the complaint. () mere fact of lodging of a complaint shall not warrant suspension of the procurement process. () any bidder not satisfied with the decision of the committee of the procuring agency may lodge an appeal in the relevant court of jurisdiction. page arbitration. () after coming into force of the procurement contracts, dispu tes between the parties to the contract shall be settled by arbitration. () the procuring agencies shall provide for a method of arbitration in the procurement contract, not inconsistent with the laws of pakistan under section (j) supra only any mi nistry, department or division or any office of the federal government or any authority, corporation or organization established by or under a federal law or which is owned or controlled by the federal government is included in the definition of procuring agency. the water and power department of government of gilgit -baltistan or the bidding committee of department is not covered by the definition of procuring agency as it is not a ministry, division, department or an office of federal government and also do not fall in the definition of an authority, corporation, body or organization established under any federal law or owned or controlled by the federal government. in public procurement matter, the procuring agency has the pivotal role and in the light of definition of the procuring agency under ppra ordinance in the present case, ka na division, government of pakistan would be the procuring agency and chairman northern areas under northern areas governance order being controlling authority of northern areas would exercise the power in the affairs of northern areas under northern areas governance order, and secretary ka na division having administrative control of procuring agency under ppra ordinance would exercise the power accordingly a nd water and power department of government of gilgit baltistan would function under the control of ka na division of government of pakistan for the purpose of ppra ordinance the real question for consideration would be whether secretary ka na page divisi on was competent to deal with the matter and if so the order him was a fair and transparent order or it was a mala fide order which would be treated to have been passed without lawful authority. the provincial government of northern areas establ ished under northern areas governance order would be discharging its functions under the administrative control of ministry of kashmir affairs and northern areas and minister for ka na under the governance order was the chairman and controlling a uthority of northern areas and ka na division by virtue of section (j) of ppra ordinance supra being an administrative division of federal government would be the procuring agency for the purpose of procurement of public contracts in gilgit -baltistan whereas the water and power department of provincial government of gilgit -baltistan would be performing the duty of an agent of ka na division. in view of the legal position, the function of bidding committee of provincial government would be confined to the xtent of inviting the tenders for prequalification, call of bid and after evaluation of bids to submit its recommendation to the procuring agency (ka na division) in terms of rule of public procurement rules, referred above for rejection or accept ance of bid. subject to ppra ordinance and rules framed thereunder a procuring agency of federal government may delegate its power wholly or partially to its subordinate office or department and ka na division being procuring agency in all procurements matters may expressly or impliedly authorize any department of government of gilgit -baltistan to perform certain functions of procuring agency under public procurement rules, but the department may not be page independently treated procuring agency under sec tion (j) of the ppra ordinance gilgit -baltistan is under the administrative control of federal government of pakistan by virtue of northern areas governance order since repealed by gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order the northern areas governance order and gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, have the status of sub constitutional document which are deemed to have been issued by the federal government of pakistan for governance of this a rea in terms of article of the constitution of pakistan which provides as under: government of territories outside provinces. subject to the constitution, until majlis -e-shoora (parliament) by law otherwise provides, the president may, by or der, make provisions for peace and good government of any part of pakistan not forming part of a province. gilgit -baltistan is not a province of pakistan or part of capital territory of pakistan rather by virtue of article ()(d) of the constitution bein considered an area included in pakistan, is under the administrative control of government of pakistan and subject to the laws of pakistan would be governed by northern areas governance order substituted by gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, therefore, ppra ordinance and public procurement rules having overriding effect on the departmental instruction or the rules of business of government of gilgit -baltistan, would govern all procurement contracts in gilgit -baltistan by ka na division as procuring agency by virtue of section (j) ibid read with public procurement authority rules whereas the bidding committee of water and power department of government of gilgit page baltistan would have implied authority of per forming the ministerial functions on behalf of the procuring agency. the minister for ka na by virtue of article (c) of northern areas governance order was holding the office of chairman northern areas and was authorized to exercise the power under article of the governance order as under: chairman.- () there shall be a chairman of the northern areas who shall be the federal minister for kashmir affairs and northern areas. () the chairman shall exercise powers specified in sub -rule of rule of the rules of business. () the chairman shall address the opening and closing sessions of the northern areas legislative assembly (nala) in every financial year wherein he shall detail his policy for the northern areas and review the worki ng of northern areas government in that year respectively. he may also address the assembly at his discretion and for that purpose may require the attendance of the members. () the chairman shall work towards continued empowerment of the elected represe ntatives and the people of northern areas. the rules of business of provincial government of northern areas in respect of discharge of function by the chairman provides as under: rule functions of the chairman. () the chairman shall: (a) be the head of government. (b) be responsible for co -ordination and implementation of all policy matters; (c) exercise powers of the federal ministry of finance in relation to the approved budget for northern areas as specified in schedule -iii; (d) exercise administrativ powers of the establishment division in relation to employees of northern areas as specified in schedule -iv; (e) perform other function assigned under these rules; and (f) have the powers to call for any case or information from any office or corporation. it is clear from plain reading of the above provision of governance order read with the definition of procuring agency under section (j) of ppra ordinance and rule of the rules framed thereunder the chairman northern areas and secretary ka na division would have exclusive jurisdiction to deal with the matter and no other departmental authority in the provincial or federal government was competent to interfere in the matter. page in the light of above discussion we hold that chairman northern areas being co ntrolling authority would be competent to interfere in the affairs of government of gilgit -baltistan and the representation of the respondent in the form of a complaint under rule ibid before the procuring agency was rightly entertained by him in exerci se of power under article of northern areas governance order and secretary ka na division being incharge of administrative division could competently deal with the complaint under rule of ppra rules the procedure and power of rejection or acceptance of bid or rebidding is provided under rule to of the ibid rules and careful examination of these rules would bring us to the conclusion that the departmental committee of water and power department, government of gilgit -baltistan on comple tion of the process of prequalification of contractors would call the bid tenders and after evaluation of bids would submit evaluation report to the procuring agency for final decision of rejection or acceptance of a bid. the procuring agency has exclusive jurisdiction to entertain complaint in respect of any matter before the award of contract under rule of the public procurement rules and bidding committee of water and power department of government of gilgit -baltistan, after making recommendation on evaluation of bids would become factious offico to recall or rescind the recommendation or to deal with the complaint or perform any other function on behalf of procuring agency. the decision of acceptance or rejection of a bid or recall of the tender for fresh bid would not be the function of bidding committee of department of water and power, government of gilgit -baltistan, therefore the minister for ka na as page chairman northern areas in exercise of the power under northern areas governance order read with rules of business of government of northern areas being authorized to call for the record of any case pertaining to northern areas to ascertain the legality of an action may interfere in the matter and the objection to the entertainment of epresentation of respondent no. by the chairman or its disposal by the secretary ka na division as a complaint under rule supra is without any substance. the secretary ka na division exercising power of head of procuring agency, on the instruction of chairman referred the matter to ppra for opinion and while acting as one member committee in the light of opinion of ppra decided the matter. therefore, the contention that the complaint under rule of the public procurement rules was required to be filed before the departmental bidding committee or water and power department of provincial government of gilgit -baltistan has no legal force. the chairman northern areas by virtue of article of the northern areas governance order even without a fo rmal application could call the record of any case and pass an appropriate order in the public interest, whereas, in the present case the chairman instead of passing any order on the representation of the respondent no. instructed secretary ka na to refe the matter to ppra for opinion and in the light thereof secretary ka na division passed the order under challenge as competent authority of procuring agency under public procurement rules, public procurement regularity authority established under ppra ordinance has exclusive authority to deal with the procurement matters and opinion of this regularity authority (ppra) has binding page force, therefore the secretary ka na division in his capacity as administrative head of procuring agency on the bas is of opinion of ppra passed the order and mere fact that cognizance of the matter was taken by him on the instruction of chairman northern areas and the order was also passed with his approval would not give rise to the presumption of personal interest of chairman or secretary in the matter. the detail examination of law on the subject and record of works department of government of gilgit -baltistan and the documents referred above would show that after completion of process of prequalification by the boa rd, the function of the departmental bidding committee was confined to the extend of calling of bids for award of contract, opening of technical and financial bid for the purpose of evaluation and in the light of bidding document after evaluation had to submit its recommendation to the procuring agency for acceptance or rejection of bids. the bidding committee of water and power department of government of northern areas was constituted by the chief engineer under the order of secretary of department and order of chief engineer would show that after evaluation of the bids, the committee was required to forward the matter with its recommendation to the competent authority for decision of acceptance or rejection of any bid or recall of the tenders. the expres sion competent authority under the ppra ordinance read with public procurement rules, is procuring agency and in the present case procuring agency was ka na division, government of pakistan. in consequence to the recommendation of board of offic ers and the proceeding for prequalification of the contra ctors for participation in page bids. the secretary water and power northern areas government of gilgit -baltistan vide letter dated -- directed as under: -( government of pak istan office of secretary water power northern areas to chief engineer water power department gilgit. subject: supply installation, commissioning and te st running of turbo generating sets for hydro power in northern areas lot -a lot -b) reference your letter no. board of officer tg sets dated 1st june on the subject noted above. board proceedings of board has been approved by the competent authority. the following firms have been pre -qualified to take part in the bidding for lot a a nd b. i. al fajr international islamabad. ii. hmc taxila. iii. design engineers pvt. ltd. iv. fahim haider lahore. v. hydro power engineer and research institute tried china. xen nahew is directed to issue invitation letter and boqs to the respective firms to ubmit their technical and financial proposals within notified time. those firms not pre qualified to be informed with reasons. bids will be opened and evaluated by a committee to be notified by the chief engineer reps of secretary d. secretary finance a nd secretary water and power be also included in the committee. se (works) for secretary water power there is no indication in the letter of secretary works or in the proceeding of auction that departmental committee or the chief engineer as the case may be, would be authorized to finally accept or reject the bid on behalf of procuring agency, rather it is clear from the record that bidding committee with its recommendation and all bidding documents was required to place the matter before the procurin agency ka na division for decision regarding acceptance or rejection of bids. the board of officers constituted for the purpose of prequalification of contractors to participate in the bid for the auction of contract of supply and installation of turbo generator sets for ongoing hydro projects in gilgit region and projects in skardu region invited application and on completion of the process or prequalification page under the order of secretary, a the bidding committee was constituted to be head by the chief engineer. the bidding committee submitted its report to the chief engineer for further action and chief engineer without having any authority or approval of procuring agency assuming the role of competent authority by rejecting all bids vide order ated -, directed for recall of the bid tender s. in consequence to the above discussion we hold that the bidding committee or chief engineer water and power department of government of gilgit -baltistan as the case may be, was not competent to fina lly reject or accept any bid rather it was the authority of procuring agency to reject or accept a bid in the light of the recommendation of the bidding ommittee and secretary ka na division exercising the power of procuring agency on the instruction of chairman northern areas rightly referred the matter to ppra for opinion and on the basis of opinion of ppra gave his verdict vide ... the perusal of the proceedings of bidding committee and the procurement agency and also the order of ecretary would not show any procedural irregularity or substantial illegality in the matter or any other legal defect in the order of secretary which may render the order illegal. the mere technicalities or minor procedural irregularities may not directly or indirectly effect the validity of the order calling for interference of this court. the minister for ka na government of pakistan exercising the power of chairman northern areas by virtue of article ibid was empowered to deal with the affairs of northern areas as controlling authority under northern areas governance order and being page executive head would discharge his functions under the rules of business of provincial government of northern areas referred above through the chief secretary of the provincial government of northern areas and the secretary ka na division who having administrative control of the provincial government of northern areas would directly involve in the affairs of government of gilgit -baltistan and bidding committee headed by the chief engineer of water and power department of government of gilgit -baltistan under the rules of business of provincial government read with rules of business of government of pakistan would be performing function subject to the control of ka na division. this may be seen that in the present case the bidding committee in the light of evaluation criteria and the bidding documents recommended rejection of all bids including the bid of al -fajr international on the ground that single responsiv bid which was also not lowest was not competitive and chief engineer assuming the power of competent authority of procuring agency directed for recall of the tenders without considering the criteria in terms of public procurement rules, for acceptan ce of a bid as under: a bid should fulfill evaluation criteria and other conditions specified in the bidding documents and also should have lowest evaluated cost but echnically non responsive bid even if lowest is not considered for competition in the light of above criteria a nonresponsive bid would not be put in competition with responsive bid for any purpose including cost and a single responsive bid also could not be rejected for mere reason that it was not lowest in cost to that of the nonrespon sive bids. the principle of fair, open and transparent method of procurement in the public page contract being well founded in law is applicable to all public projects to ensure that public authority has acted in quite fair and transparent manner strictly in ac cordance with law. the rule of law and principle of fair treatment is that responsive and nonresponsive bids are not placed together in com the purpose of cost evaluation rather the cost competition would be determined inter se responsive bids and bid lowest in cost would be accepted. the procuring agency reserves the power of rejection of any bid but the rejection or acceptance of a bid for a reason beyond the scope of law may negate the purpose of law and thus exclusion of a responsive bid fro consideration for mere reason that in comparison to nonresponsive bids it was not lowest, was not proper and would amount an infringement of a legitimate right of contract and denial of a legal right arbitrarily. the learned counsel for the petitioner without pointing out any material on the record showing any personal interest or mala fide of any public authority in the federal government asserted that filing of a representation by respondent no. directly before the chairman in departure to the normal procedure and subsequent proceedings in the matter in the ka na division on the instruction of minister would make the order of secretary doubtful and would be sufficient to infer the personal interest and mala fide reflecting upon the transparency of the transaction. the assertion that in cases of doubtful character if court taking judicial notice of the conduct of departmental authorities may raise a presumption of mala fide or lack of bona fide in the transaction reflecting upon improper exercise of jur isdiction is without any foundation. page the question of mala fide is a matter of evidence and mala fide in fact is a state of mind of ill -will hatred or hostility of one person towards another person to do a wrongful act without a legal excuse or justificati on. malice is a positive desire and intention of a person which induces him to injure and defame or cause damage to another person. the malice in law is intentional performance of an act with just and lawful excuse or willful violation of law or right or rivilege of others with the intention to do a wrong or cause injury to another person or to get undue benefit disregard to the right of others. the presumption of malice in fact or law cannot be raised by mere fact that an action of an official authority as not in consonance with spirit of law. this is settled principle that mala fide, unfairness, unjust, unreasonableness or bias and favouritism or improper exercise of the discretion in the public auctions and contracts by the public authorities or such ther matters of public importance are valid and legal reasons for interference of courts but if no such reason is found in a transaction, the same would be deemed to have been conducted in quite transparent manner and no presumption to the contrary would be raised on the basis of mere assertion. this court in exercise of power of judicial review is not supposed to import new facts or to allow to plead new facts which are not part of record to raise the presumption of mala fide. the law laid down by the sup reme court of pakistan in pld sc messrs ramna pipe and general mills (pvt.) limited messrs sui northern gas pipe lines (pvt.) and others scmr is subject to the proof of the element of mala fide, unjust, unfairness or personal interest in the transaction or that for page any other reason the transaction was not transparent. therefore the court are not supposed to frequently interfere in the administrative decisions unless there is a valid reason to show improper or illegal exercise of jurisdiction by an administrative authority. the mala fide in fact means a malicious act done or an action taken in bad faith or with the motive of benefit as against to the public interest and mere a wrong action taken by a public authority or an action taken without lawful authority is not considered a mala fide action unless the element of malice or the ulterior motive for taking a wrong action is proved. the presumption of unfairness and mala fide as contended by the learned counsel for the petition er cannot be raised merely on the basis of an allegation that action was wrong in law is not sufficient to hold the case mala fide. the supreme court of pakistan in federation of pakistan v. saeed ahmed khan (pld sc has held as under: mala fid es is one of the most difficult things to prove and the onus is entirely upon the person alleging mala fides to establish it, because, there is, to start with, a presumption of regularity with regard to all official acts, and until that presumption of regu larity with regard to all official acts, and until that presumption is rebutted, the action cannot be challenged merely upon a vague allegation of mala fides. mala fides must be pleaded with particularity, and once one kind of mala fides is alleged, no one should be allowed to adduce proof of any other kind of mala fides nor shou ld any enquiry be launched merely on the basis of vague and indefinite allegations, nor should the person alleging mala fides be allowed a roving enquiry into the files of the gove rnment for the purposes of fishing out some kind of a case. the careful examination of the document placed on record and the factual position in the background would not suggest any unfairness in use of power or any procedural or substantial error or defect in the proceedings either before the chairman northern areas or the secretary ka na division which may creat any doubt regarding departure of high order of transparency required in such cases of public interest. the mere fact that representation filed by respondent no. in the matter was entertained by the chairman without observing the page formalities of official business and secreta ry ka na on his instruction taking cognizance passed the order against the interest of petitioner is not by itself a ground to hold that order was mala fide or was illegal. the technically and financially responsive bid of respondent no was excluded from consideration by the bidding committee for the reason that it being single responsive bid was not competitive and as compa red to nonresponsive bids was also not lowest. the above reason having no legal sanction for rejection of a bid would amount to take away the legitimate right of successful bidder in an arbitrary manner as the rule of acceptance of comparatively lowest bid is applicable intense responsive bids and not on the basis of lowest evaluation cost of nonresponsive bid. in case of single responsive bid which is noncompetitive the reasonability of the cost value of bid is the rule for its acceptance or rejection and the reasonableness of the cost wil be judged in context to the reserved price. thus the principle is that if a noncompetitive bid is found unreasonable vis a vis the reserved price, the same may not be accepted. the improper rejection of a bid without any just and valid reason and rebidding at the cost of public time and money with risk of increase of cost of project due to increase of prices is not in the public interest rather this exercise may put the exchequer under extra burden and courts in such case of public projects are always reluctant to interfere. the doctrine of reasonableness is an elastic term which is of uncertain of value in definition and which depends upon variety of consideration and circumstances. the expression reasonable in law mean capable of reasoning i.e. a reasonable base and for exercise of judicial discretion to review an administrative action and application of page law in just, and reasonable manner is to the reasonablenes of an action is the degree of care taken in dealing with a matter involving rights of others which are taken by a person of ordinary prudence in the use of his property. the rule with regard to exercise of power of judicial review in respect of administr ative decision and action is that court should not substitute its judgment and decision for the order and action of a public authority rather the function of the court is to determine the reasonableness of the order by considering the facts and circumstanc es and the evidence in the manner in which a reasonable man would determine reasonableness in such matter. the question for consideration is whether a reasonable doubt arise to suggest that an administrative order an authority is polluted with a ny reason which appears to be violative of the rule of fairness or offends the principle of reasonableness in law. the doubt must be actual and substantial arising from the fact as distinguished from a vague apprehension and also must be fair in the common sense and the state of mind which after fair comprehension and consideration of the evidence and also the facts and circumstances of the case creates an impression of doubt on the mind of a person of ordinary prudence. in net shall the rule of reasonablen ess required to be applied in dealing with the matters of public importance is that no element of unfairness, mala fide or personal interest making the order unjust and unreasonable should appear in the mind of a reasonable person. the true test of reason ableness of an order or an action of a public authority is that in the ordinary circumstances it is not beyond the expectation or judgment of common man and also is not considered page arbitrary, capricious and confiscatory in the estimation of a common person. the court while judging the reasonableness of an order on the above test if comes to the conclusion that the order lacks necessary diligence and care required to be taken public importance may raise presumption of unreasonableness of an rder but no such presumption can be raised merely on the basis of hearsay reasons which do not satisfy the mind of a reasonable person. the learned counsel for the respondent no. in the light of law laid down by the supreme court of pakistan in syed tehseen (pld sc ), pakistan state oil company v. muhammad naqi scmr ), petrosin corporation v. oil and gas development company scmr conceding the proposition that the court in its discretionary jurisdic tion can interfere in a matter of public importance and may declare an order of a public authority illegal on the ground of mala fide, arbitrary exercise of discretion, lack of transparency and undue favour or influence, submitted that applying the above est to the order under challenge in the present petition a person of ordinary prudence would not find any element of unfairness, mala fide, personal interest which may effect the transparency of the order or transaction. the criteria to the administrative authorities while dealing with the matters involving rights of a person must exercise power with extra care and page administer the law in respect of such rights in judicious manner but the strict observance of judicial procedure of courts being not requirement of adminis trative law, an executive or administrative authority before making decision need not to hold an inquiry or conduct an investigation into the matter as in the cases of judicial decisions unless an inquiry or investigation is considered an obligatory determ inative factor for the decision under the statute. the public authorities are not required to necessarily act judicially in a matter under consideration before them unless the law in express or implied terms requires to follow the judicial procedure for an administrative decision. there are different rights which are enforceable through the process of law as superior or inferior legal rights and courts of law are required to determine these rights accordingly. the right may be defined in law as under: the just and valid claim in any property or thing or privilege or in any other matter which involves a right recognized by law and since there are qualified and unqualified rights therefore correct definition of right is deceptive this is an absolute ri ght of a person to use his property subject to law in the manner he likes but he has no right to use his property for any immoral or illegal purpose. the civil rights are distinguished from elemental ides of absolute rights and thus only the rights given a nd protected by law are enforceable at law and similarly a substantial right which is recognized as enforceable at law is distinguishable from a technical right in same manner as a real and actual claim is distinguishable from a colourable claim. page the clai to a thing is a right of an individual in primitive sense which has the protection of law and a legal action can be taken on its infringement. the mere permission to do a thing in law is not a legal right to be enforced at law rather the liberty of doing or possessing something consistently is a right in law. in net shell the right is an interest which is recognized and protected by law and possessor of such right can enforce it by an appropriate action in accordance with law. there are primary or substan tive rights which are rights in rem and right in personam and infringement of these rights is challengeable by availing the remedies provided under the law. the participation in a public auction subject to fulfilling requisite qualification is a legal righ of a person and a wrong action in respect of such right in breach of the law is actionable at law. therefore a successful bidder in an public auction may on wrongful rejection of his bid by availing the legal remedy take action for enforcement of his rig ht but an unsuccessful bidder cannot defeat the legitimate right of contract of successful bidder on the basis of claim of re -auction for technical reasons. in the light of the concept of rights we find that the petitioner has no independent statutory rig ht to assert his claim rather he is resisting the legitimate right of respondent no. a successful bidder with the intere st of participation in re -auction. the right of a person to participate in public auction subject to law is a legal right which may a rise if auction is held but the right of successful bidder in an auction for grant of contract is a substantive right which is enforceable at law and is considered a superior right to that of a right which depends on happening of an event. in the light the reof the petitioner on the basis of expectation of participation in re -auction cannot defeat the page legitimate and substantive right of contract of respondent no. a successful bidder in the auction. there is no cavil to the proposition that the order passe by the public authorities involving public interest or right of an individual are not immune from judicial scrutiny but the scope of interference of the courts in such matters being very limited, the courts are not supposed to raise a presumption of mala fide or unfairness or that a public auction or contract was not transparent merely on the basis of unfounded allegation and defeat the legitimate right of a person. however, the court during the course of judicial scrutiny of a public auction or contract in a case if comes to the conclusion that transaction was for an extraneous consideration or was mala fide or undue favour has been extend to any person may without looking for any other evidence declare the auction or the contract as the case may be, ille gal but in the present case, no element of mala fide, unfairness or favouritism reflecting upon the transparency in the order of secretary is traceable on record, calling for interference of court. this is not denied that petitioner without fulfilling the requirement of furnishing the bank guarantee or deposit slip for participation in the bid, offered the bid which was rejected being not responsive and consequently, for the purpose of determining the fair test of bid, the technically and financially respon sive bid would not be placed with the responsive bid for determination of cost. the law would not approve the view of the bidding committee that a single responsive bid which was also not lowest to the nonresponsive bids was non competitive to reject the responsive bid. page the law on the subject (ppra ordinance and rules) is self- expla natory and self -executor the procuring agencies being bound by this law must not pass orders against the spirit of ppra law. therefore, notwi thstanding the limited scope of jud icial scrutiny of the admin istrative decision, the court may not hesitate to interfere in judici al discretion in a matter of improper exercise of jurisdiction subject to the limitation that court may not frequently interfere in administrative decision unless the element of unfairness, unjust unreasonable, lack of transparency, bias, favoritism or mala fide is found apparent on record or arbitrary exercise of discretionary power by a public authority in a matter. net result of above discussion is that court following the policy and principle of judicial restrained may not frequently interfere in an order a public authority, unless it is found suffering from the defect of improper exercise of jurisdiction, or is mala fide or unfair and unrea sonable ness in the eye of law. the court may also in its discretion take judicial notice of an order passed in a matter of public importance adverse to the public interest. the discretion in plain words is that in the facts of a particular case what decision is to be taken in the guidance of law and decision to the expectation of a person may not be absolutely right rather the determinative factor is that the same is within the scope of law and is in the interest of justice. the administrative authorities and publi functionaries do not have uncontrolled discretionary jurisdiction to decide a matter absolutely in their choice rather this power demands equitable decision which is just and proper under the circumstances of the case. the discretion is power of performi ng in ones own judgment without control of others and thus this power confers a right upon the page official authorities for doing an act under the certain circumstances according to the dictate of their own judgment and conscious uncontrolled by the judgment a nd conscious of others. there is no concept of unfettered discretion in law rather all administrative and judicial authorities have to exercise the discretion ary jurisdiction in a reasonable, rational and proportionate manner. the unreasonable exercise of discretion may give rise to the presumption that the order was motivated for some extraneous consideration and was not dealt with fairly and in a case of exercise of discretionary power by a public authority in an unreasonable manner the superior courts may in exercise of power of judicial discretion interfere and pass an appropriate order to advance the cause of the exercise of discretionary power beyond the limits and comprehension of a person of ordinary intelligence is unreaso nable, irrational and improper and an order passed in improper exercise of jurisdiction is treated without lawful authority. the principle is that exercise of discretion by the public authorities in the matter involving public interest in an improper manne is considered a substantial error in exercise of the jurisdiction which is deemed to have not been exercised in good faith or public interest. this is settled law that if an official transaction of public importance involves an element of a reasonable do ubt or personal interest, undue favour, unfairness or for a consideration other than the public interest, the presumption that order was not bona fide can be raised but no such presumption can be raised merely on the basis of general allegation without the support of substantial material. the doubtful character of the transaction must be page proved to have been polluted with bad faith or consideration not within the compass of good faith which may give rise to the presumption that transaction was not transparen but in absence of any evidence direct or circumstantial the raising of such presumption is illegal exercise of jurisdiction. the supreme court of pakistan in scmr held as under: the doctrine of proportionally stems from irrationality and per versity in the exercise of administrative discretion. disproportional and unreasonableness are synonymous, and the jurisprudential basis is that the power, and the court proceeds on the presumption that the legislature does not authorize unreasonableness acts. while conferring discretion on an authority the statue does not intended to arm such authority with unfettered discretion which may be beyond the limits of reason, and comprehension of a man of ordinary intelligence. it is to be read in such statue hat the authority while exercising its discretion shall act reasonably. the writ jurisdiction of the courts is equitable and discretionary jurisdiction which is different from the ordinary jurisdiction and judicial discretion in the exercise of judicial power in accordance with spirit of law must be based upon the facts and circumstances of the case brought before the court in which the court may draw a conclusion deserved by law. the discretion conferred by law upon the court in judicial matter is a lega discretion to be exercised in conformity with the spirit of law and in a manner to subserve and not defeat the ends of just and proper and may not be interfereable in judicial discretion. the principle is that court in discretionary jurisdiction will not substitute their opinion and judgment with the opinion and the judgment given by the executive authorities or public functionaries in their discretion unless the page discretion exercised by such authorities is arbitrary, capricious and unreasonable in law and facts of the case. the superior courts in gilgit -baltistan in exercise of power of judicial review under gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, may issue direction orders and writs to an authority or government discharging exec utive functions under any statue but the encroachment upon decision of an executive authority in departure to the principle of the distribution of powers between the legislative, executive and the judiciary would amount judicial invasion and would be contr ary to the spirit of law. this is settled principle that in exercise of writ jurisdiction the court cannot substitute itself for an executive authority or assume the jurisdiction in a manner which may suggest that court has taken upon itself the responsibi lity of the executive authority or exercise judicial authority in the form of executive order rather the function of the court is only to issue directions to the administrative or executive authorities in a matter which falls within the ambit of judicial eview of the courts. the improper or illegal exercise of jurisdiction by an executive authority or exercise of jurisdiction not vested under law in departure to the law with overriding effect injurious to a justiciable right of a person is undoubtedly subj ect to the judicial scrutiny of the court but an order of an executive authority may not call for interference merely for the reason that the court is competent to exercise jurisdiction. the reliance may be placed on tariq transport company, lahore v. sarg odha -bhera bus service, sargodha and others. (pld sc the superior court following the principle of judicial restraint if in a case of public importance form an opinion that public interest has page been impaired or has not been properly safeguarded ay in exercise of the power of judicial review interfere in the matter and we, without taking any exception to the proposition of law that an order a public functionary or a departmental authority if is found tainted with an element of mala fide, personal interest or adverse to the public interest would be deem ed to have been passed without lawful authority, hold that the above rule is subject to the exception that the courts in their extra ordinary jurisdiction may not frequently interfere in the public auctions and contracts and disturb the functioning of public authorities in discretionary jurisdiction unless reasonable grounds to believe are shown that transaction did not fulfill the required standard of transparency or an order was adverse to the public interest. the court may not hesitate to interfere in a matter in which an executive authority or a public functionary passed an order for a consideration other th an public interest or for the reason behind the scope of law and if in a matter of public importance, the element of mala fide, unreasonable, unjust and unfairness is traceable on record or it is found that discretion has been improperly exercised for some personal intere st or benefit or for a consideration other than the public interes t, the court may in writ jurisdiction declare a public auct ion or contract without lawful authority. in the light of the above test of transparency we have not been able to find out any element of personal interest or malice or unfairness or unreasonablen ess or undue favour in the order the secretary ka na division and also have not found any substance in the contention of learned counsel for petitioner that in normal circumstances the order of recall of tender departmental page committee would not be interfered by the secretary therefore, perception would be that because of the personal interest of the chairman, he has taken pain to pass an order favourable to respondent no. which would create an impression of unfairness and undue influenc e. this may not be fair to raise a presumption of undue favour or undue influence and unfairness or extraneous consideration for exercise of discretion merely for the reason that an authority which has passed an order was also empowered to pass a contrary order in his discretion in same set of circumstances. the plea of personal int erest, extraneous consideration, undue favour or influence or mala fide without support of any substantial evidence may have no basis and law would not permit for drawing a presu mption or an inference merely on the basis of suspicion or self created doubt of un fairness of an order or transaction. the law is that initia presumption of correctness attaches with the official acts, transaction and business and also in favour of bona fide of an order, therefore, unless this presumption is rebutted through evidence direct or circumstantial, the legality of a public transaction or an order of a public authority cannot be interfered merely on the basis of unfounded and general allegation of mala fide, unfairness or unreasonableness. the careful examination of the record in the light of law on the subject would show that no element of mala fide or direct or indirect interest of any public authority including the secretary ka na division and chairman northern areas is traceable in the transaction and also no procedural or substantial error or jurisdictional defect is found to have been committed in passing the order to make it unlawful and further we have not found the order adverse to the ublic interest. the page petitioner in his application moved to the chairman na and also in the writ petition filed by him before the chief court as well as in the present petition before this court has not alleged mala fide of chairman or secretary or that order was passed for some extraneous consideration or personal interest or that undue favour was extended to respondent no. rather he deposing full confidence in the independence of chairman in the application sought his interference in the matter. this as sertion of mala fide and personal interest was taken for the first time by learned counsel for the petitioner during the course of arguments with emphasize that this court by raising presumption of mala fide and extraneous consideration on the strength of law laid down by the superior courts of pakistan for exercise of power of judicial review in public contracts and auctions may declare the order of secretary illegal. this court exercising ordinary or extra ordinary jurisdiction under gilgit -baltistan (empo werment and self governance) order, without any positive proof or plausible reason appealable to mind is not supposed to raise the presumption of mala fide and doubt the fairness of an order a public authority. the court also may not take judicial notice of a matter or consideration which is not within the compass of the facts of a case and draw an inference of bad faith. this is not legal to draw an adverse inference against an order of public authority in ordinary circumstances without any proof of malice or personal interest of such authority. the allegation of mala fide or unjust and unfairness or reasonable ness of an order must be proved on record to establish that order was not transparent or the same was not in public interest. page the sup reme court of pakistan in messrs ramna pipe and general mills (pvt.) limited messrs sui northern gas pipe lines (pvt.) and others scmr held as under: a contract carrying element of the public interest is open for judicial review. a contract carrying elements of public interest, concluded by functionaries of the state has to be just, fair, transparent, reasonable and free of any taint of mala fides, all such aspects remaining open for judicial review. the rule is founded on the premise that public functionaries, deriving authority from or under law, are obligated to act justly, fairly equitably, reasonably, without any element of discrimination and squarely within the parameters of law, as applicable in a given situation. deviation if of substance, can be corrected through appropriate orders under article of the constitution such behalf even where a contract, pure and simple, is involved, provided always that public element presents itself and the dispute does not entail evidentiary facts of a disputed nature redress may be provided from the scrutiny of the record with the assistance of learned counsel for the parties in the light of test of transparency laid down in such matters, we have not been able to find out any apparent element of personal interest or mala fide, unfairness or unreasonableness to hold that the order of the secretary was not in the public interest. the learned counsel for the parties and also learned advocate general assisted by the chief engineer and other officials of works department government of gilgit -baltistan informed the court that before filing the writ petition by the petitioner in the chief court, contract was awarded to respondent no. in implementation of the order the secretary ka na division and notwithstanding the result of this petition certain obligation and liabilities of parties have been created under the contract therefore the reversal of the order of secretary at this stage on a technical ground may create complication and cause heavy loss to the government. the asserted that the bids for grant of contract were offered on the basis of prevailing prices and in case of rebidding the cost of contract would be double of the present cost due to the increase in prices, which would not be in public interest. the chief engineer who was chairman of the bidding page committee of the department has frankly conceded that the opinion of bidding committee of department being not in consonance to the spirit of ppra ordina nce and rules framed thereu nder was overruled by the secretary ka na division on the basis of opinion of ppra and rightly declared al-fajr international as successful bidder therefore, the order was not suffering from any legal or factual infirmity or defect and was also not against the public interest calling for interference of this court. the learned advocate general at this stage pointed out that proper safeguard has been provided in ppra ordinance and rules for the protect ion of public interest in public procurement contracts whereunder in case of any breach of contract including the concealment of any material fact in the process of pre qualification or at a subsequent stage before the grant of contract or any other omission committed by the contractor falling within the purview of rule and of the public procurement rules or under any other provision of ppra ordinance the procuring agency is authorized to proceed against the contractor and take appropriate action including cancellation of contract in accordanc with law. there is general complaint in gilgit -baltistan that contractors usually do not complete the public projects within the stipulated period provided in the contract rather in connivance with the concerned department intentionally cause delay in the execution of work with the purpose to raise the cost of project on the ground of acceleration of prices for undue financial gain against the public interest. the delay in public projects for an unforeseen reason or an act of god or an act of government is explainable but the delay in the contract in normal circumstances is not excusable and failure of the contractor to fulfill his page contractual obligation within time may constitute willful breach of contract and held him liable to pay damages to the govern ment. the rule of per force mojoro is to meet the extra ordinary situation and may not be applicable in ordinary circumstances, therefore, in case of willful breach of ontractor in a public procurement contra ct, contractor must face the consequence of penalty provided in the contract and under the law. in consequence to the above discussion we hold that the public procurement contract are governed by ppra ordinance and rules framed thereunder which is special law on the subject, therefore, the failure of contractor to supply the goods at agreed price according to the schedule of supply may be a breach of contract which may cause delay the main project, therefore the procuring agency is obliged under the law to proceed against the contractor for appropriat action including cancellation of contract at his cost and risk in accordance with law. the contractors are not entitled to any claim beyond the scope of contract and law unless it is provided in the contract for payment of extra cost on the basis of acceleration of price if project is not completed within contract period and no such claim is entertainable without determination of cause of delay or the reason of non completion of project within time. the extra payment on the basis of acceleration of price in the normal circumstances is undue favour to the contractor s, which amounts misappropriation of government funds on the part of concerned official s, therefore the officials involved in such matters must face the consequence of criminal charge and also departmental action for misconduct. the chief secretary, government of gilgit -baltistan in cases of extra payment at the cost of burden on the exchequer may page holding inquiry into the cause of delay or justification of extra payment to a contractor set the law at motion for action in accordance with law. the above are the detail reason for short order rendered on -- which is treated part of this judgment as under: this leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order has been directed against the -- the chief court gilgit -baltistan in a writ petition filed against the secretary ka na (ka gb) division by virtue of which res pondent no. al-fajr international was declared successful bidder for grant of contract for supply, installation, commissioning and test running of turbo generator sets for hydro power projects in northern areas after preliminary hearing notice was i ssued to the respondent vide -- to consider the validity of the order of the secretary ka na division and the judgment of the chief court under challenge before us in the leave to appeal which is reproduced as under: the subject matter of this petition is contract for supply of hydro power turbines to be awarded by water and power department gilgit -baltistan. the tenders were accordingly invited and the petitioner and respondent no. to participated in the bid. the chief engineer having found none of the bids responsive, rejected all the bids vide -- with recall of the tenders. the secretary, ministry of ka gb division islamabad on representation of respondent no. against rejection of his bid vi de -- declared him successful bidder. the learned counsel for the petitioner with reference to rule of public procurement regulatory authority rules framed under public procurement regularity authority ordinance contents hat any person aggrieved of rejection or acceptance of a bid can avail the remedy of complaint before the procurement committee or invoke the jurisdiction of competent court and neither the representation before secretary ka na division islamabad was maint ainable nor the secretary was competent to interfere in the matter. precisely the contention of the learned counsel is that the remedy against the rejection of bid was either complaint before the procurement committee or to invoke the jurisdiction of the competent court but the chief court without attending the real question involved in the matter has dismissed the writ petition in a perfunctory manner on technical ground. the learned counsel added that the order the secretary ka gb division bei ng without lawful authority may seriously reflect upon the fair award of contract of an important public project and dismissal of writ petition on the ground that it was not maintainable was not proper and legal. the contentions raised being not without orce require consideration, therefore notice is issued to the respondents. learned advocate general on court call has appeared and he has been directed to file concise statement on behalf of the officials respondent (respondents no. to ). the learned ounsel for petitioner states that respondent no. and are proforma and respondent no. is the real contestant. in addition to the ordinary mode of service respondent no shall also be served through the deputy commissioner islamabad as special meas ure. advocate supreme court of pakistan appeared on behalf of the petitioner and advocate supreme court of pakistan represented respondent no. whereas the official respondent (no. to have been represented by the advocate general gilgit -baltistan and profoma respondent nos. are unrepresented. page having heard the learned counsel for the parties at length and examined the record with their help and also giving due consideration to the matter in the light of provisions of public procurement ordinance read with the rules framed thereunder and the judgments of supreme court of pakistan cited by the learned counsel for the parties we propose to dispose of this petition as regular appeal through this short order with the result as under: the -- the secretary ka na, division government of pakistan whereby al-fajr international has been declared successful bidder on the basis of opinion of public procurement regu latory authority (ppra), impugned in the writ petition before the chief court and before this court in this appeal has not been found suffering from any legal defect for our interference and consequently for the detail reasons to be recorded later we dismi ss this appeal with no orders as to the costs. we with full appreciation acknowledge the valuable assistance rendered by the learned counsel for the parties and pain taken by them in conclusion of their arguments in the matter. in the light of the for egoing discussion this appeal is dismissed with no orders as to costs. chief