page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan c.p.l.a. no. chief -ud-din, judge. mst. zaib -ul nisah widow of late ghulam qadi karimabad, tehsil aliabad hunza, district hunza -nager. petitioner safi ullah baig late abdul rasheed, village karimabad, tehsil aliabad hunza, district hunza -nager. .. respondent leave to appeal under arti cle of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, against the impugned judgment -- learned chief court gilgit baltistan. present: ali dad khan advocate for petitioner farooq ahmed advocate for responde nt on special permission zaib-ul-nisa petitioner in person safi ullah baig respondent in person. date of hearing -- order rana muhammad arshad khan, cj: this petition has been directed against the -- the learne single -baltistan whereby, appeal no. c.s.a no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed. the necessary facts for disposal of the leave to appeal are that an application under section of the urban ren restriction ordinance, was filed in page the court of learned rent controller hunza, district gilgit by respondent petitioner for the ejectment of the petitioner defendant from the shop no. owned by the respondent petitioner. the respondent herein was the owner of shop no. and situated in japan chowk, karimabad hunza. the aforementioned shops were rented out to ghulam qadir husband of the petitioner respondent, who later on had died. the parties had executed an agreement dated -- to the ffect that the possession of rented out shops would be handed over to the respondent petitioner on the expiry of contract period i.e. three years. the late husband of the petitioner respondent had already vacated the shop no. and and the possession was handed over to the respondent in his life time. it is noticeable that the possession of shop no. had remained with said tenant and on the sad demise of the lessee, his wife petitioner herein did not vacate the shop no. nor the possession of the shop in question was handed over to the respondent herein. since she had stepped into the shoes of her husband and continued her business in the shop, she was asked to vacate the shop time and again but in vain. the respondent was left with no other remedy exce pt to approach the court of competent jurisdiction. in view of the divergent stands of the parties the learned rent controller framed as many as issues. the page evidence of the parties was recorded and on the conclusion of the trial, learned rent controlle accepted the petition vide -- with the direction that the petitioner shall handed over the possession of the shop in question to the petitioner within days from the date of order of the court. the petitioner respondent feeling aggr ieved by the --, impugned the same through an appeal before learned district judge, gilgit which came up for hearing before learned additional district judge, gilgit. this appeal was dismissed vide --. the petitione respondent filed a second the aforesaid order before the chief court gilgit baltistan which was also dismissed vide --. as such, the leave to appeal has been filed in this court. the learned counsel fo the petitioner after arguing the matter at full length submits, on instruction, that he will not press the petition in hand any further if, the petitioner is given five months time to vacate the shop in question. the respondent herein is also in attendan ce and agrees to give five months time for vacation of his shop. in an answer to a question the learned counsel in the presence of the petitioner states at the bar that the shop shall be vacated within the stipulated time i.e. five months settled between the parties and has undertaken before the page court that the petitioner shall not cause any hindrance at any level at all on the expiry of five months and shall hand over the vacant possession of the shop positively. in view of the agreement between the parti es and the statement at bar of the learned counsel for the petitioner, the shop in question would be vacated within five month as agreed upon. the petitioner herein is directed to vacate the shop within the stipulated time agreed between the parties in the court and shall hand over the vacant possession of the shop to the respondent herein without any hesitation and if the petitioner herein does not vacate the shop and retain the possession with her, on expiry of five months i.e. --, the respondent shall be at liberty to approach this court, if so advised, for an appropriate action against the petitioner respondent. meanwhile, the petitioner shall continue to make the payment of the fixed rent of the shop to the respondent. in view of the agreement of the parties and the statement at bar of the learned counsel of the petitioner this petition is disposed of in the above term. chief