page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit. c.p.l.a no. -ud-din, acting chief judge. judge. .mst.raqia begum widow of muhammad ramzan partab pura gilgit. .mst.khurshida beg um widow of rahim baksh hos pital colony gilgit. mst.zaree na begum widow of abdul aziz konodas colony gilgit mst.rajo begum widow of ghulam muhammad majini mohallah gilgit. abdul rehman mukhtar mir ko nodas gilgit. petitioner safdar ali dr.sadiq ali late through lrs (i) aurangzaib (ii) amjad ali (iii) asif ali (iv) sadat ali (v) meraj a li jutial gilgit. abdul qavi muhammad ishaque muhbat khan khalifa hurmat ibrar hussain iqbal hussain sons of talib hah tenants shop keepers jangi bazar gilgit. respondent leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance order ,against the impugned judgment rder dated -- the chief court gilgit -baltistan. present: muhammad hussain shahzad advocate on behalf of petitioners. date of hearing: --:- judgment: mr. this leave to appeal has been directed against the -- a learned single bench of the chief court gilgit -baltistan in revision petition no. the learned single the impugned decree by the learned lower courts respectively in the suit no. aside. hence this petition be fore this court against the impugned order. page the brief facts be hind this petition are as such that, the respondent in this petition filed a suit before the court of learned civil against the present petitioners, disputing an evacuee property situated at sa ddar bazaar in gilgit. the parties to the suit eached up to the chief court taking legal points of jurisdiction and rejection of the plaint while the real matter in issue remained before the trial court awaiting. astly the case was remitted to the trial court for adjudication on its merits. the learned trial -- to attend the court and adjourned the case for -- and the date being local holiday, the case was put up before the court on --, the da next to the holiday. on the said day, the order sheet was conducted by the reader of the trial court as such it can be presumed that, the presiding officer was on leave or was busy in respect of other cases, because no reason is available in the order sh eet as to, why the order sheet was maintained by the reader of the court. the case was again conducted by the reader of the court on -, and adjourned to --. on the appointed date the presiding officer conducted the case himself and mai ntained the order sheet quoted presence as previous put up on -- for further proceeding unquoted, the order sheet discloses nothing abo ut, what kind of proceedings, the learned presiding officer had in his mind. the point is still stands secret a on the next appointed date the case was conducted by the reader of the court and was adjourned for --. on -- the learned presiding officer himself conducted the case and pleased in administrative term to dismiss the suit for default. the order sheet dated -- is reproduced hereunder suit called for page hearing, plaintiff absent defendant no. to not in attendance, defendant no. to through d.a. present. keeping in view the absence of plaintiff the suit stand dismissed for non prosecution file. we eard the learned counsel on the petition. he raised three points to assail the impugned order the learned single (a) the application under order rule c.p.c. submitted by the present respondent before the learned trial court for restoration of the suit is miserably time barred as the same has been submitted after lapse of three years from the date passing the dismissal order by the trial court and the courts below ave concurrently held the application to be time barred under article of the limiation act act ix of (b) the present respondent have failed to state and prove sufficient ca use prescribed in order rule c.p.c. as pre -requisite to restore a suit dismissed in default. (c)the date fixed was a date of hearing but the learned single we have gone through the relevant provisions of law in this case as the same has reached before us with diversion views of the courts below. the learned civil we before seconding any legal view either taken by the learned single deem it proper to interpret the order rule c.p.c. with the help of case law the superior judiciary in this regard. order rule c.p.c. applies where none of the plaintiff appear on the first date of hearing while order rule applies to the day to which hearing of the suit is adjourned ut order rule c.p.c. provides the action of the court under order c.p.c. perusal of order rule and order rule c.p.c. inclines us page legally to hold that, order rule c.p.c. is mandatory in its nature while order rule gives a discreti on to the courts to take any action under order or otherwise to make any order the courts think fit in exercise of their discretion. some words or legal phrases incorporated jointly in order rule ,,, and order rule having significance in law. the words are reproducing and elabora ting under their titles as; date of hearing:- the word date of hearing is pre -requisite to exercise jurisdiction of the courts to pass an order under rule and order rule c.p.c. the courts have no juris diction to pass an ex -parte decree against the defendant under order rule and dismissal of the suit under order rule against the plaintiff for their absence from the court respectively. the court even cannot take any action under order rule c.p.c. unless the date was fixed by the presiding officer himself for hearing of the suit in the last previous order sheet of the case. the word hearing has not been defined in the c.p.c. but superior courts have held as illustrated (a) a date ixed or framing of issues (b) a date fixed for adducing of evidence (c) fixed for final arguments. the date fixed for filing of written statement or filing of replication are not dates fixed for hearing and likewise a date fixed for hearing of an interim issue arisen during pendency of the suit also does not come within the ambit of hearing of the case. the courts are unanimous on the point that, a dismissal order of a suit or an ex -parte decree passed when the suit was not called on for hearing the orders if passed are without jurisdiction and void. first date of hearing:- the term hearing in order rule c.p.c. refers to the first hearing after issuance of the summons to the defendants, relied on pld page page adjourned date of hearing:- the dates come after the first date of hearing of the suit, when the courts adjourned the matter for reasons to be recorded by the courts in the order sheet. sufficient cause:- the party requires to show sufficient cause for the satisfaction of the court when the party has been taken into account against by the court for his absence when the suit was called on for hearing no application u nder order rule and c.p.c. will be entertained or exceeded to unless the same application mentions a suffic ient cause and proves the same for absence of the party and unless the court comes to the conclusion that, the caus is sufficient. the application must not only requires to show sufficient cause but it must be within time under article or of limit ation act respectively. sufficient cause is required to be established only when the impugned order has been passed when the suit was called on for hearing the superior courts are at consonance with the point that, order rule and apply only to the application when the courts passed ex -parte decree or dismiss the suit in default if the parties respectively remained absent on the date, when the suit is called on for hearing otherwise orders of dismissal of the suit or ex -parte decree pass ed are without jurisdiction and powers as such do not come within the ambit of order rule and c.p.c. article and of the limitation act also do not apply to such nullity orders. the following case law has helped us to hold the above interpret ation in respect of the relevant provisions in the case in hand. () scmr page () scmr page () scmr page () scmr page () scmr page () clc page () scmr page () mld page () scmr page and gblr page the courts below ought to be very careful about the word hearing before taking any action against a party makes himself absent from the courts. the courts should have taken legal action against, under order rule when the date fixed was definitely a date of hearing otherwise the courts require to proceed the matter irrespective of the absence of any party to the suit, and adjudicate the matter finally on merits, asking the party present to defend or to prove the case ex -parte. the courts below require even to issue fresh notice to the party absent from the court if the circumstances of the case so demand. the ex -parte decrees a nd orders of dismissal of the suit passed the courts, when the suit was not called for hearing are being re dressed and recalled by the courts in exercise of their inherent jurisdiction under section c.p.c. either on their own motion or in response to an application under section c.p.c. submitted by the aggri eved party and limitation for redressing such orders passed without jurisdiction runs under article of the limitation act which is three years from the date of occurring the right to the aggrieved party. in the instant case we are really shocked after going through the order sheets maintained by the presiding officer and by the reader of the court. we are aware of the fact that, the learned civil judges in gilgit -baltistan are burden ed with the load of judicial work but even then, we could not imagine such negligence and car elessness from judicial officers, in exer cise of their judicial duties in administration of the order sheets maintained in the courts are having legal significance therefore, it is expected, from judicial officers and even from officers of the page court, whom the law has authorized to maintain the order sheets on behalf of the presiding offi cers must be vigilant. in the case in hand the order sheets maintained are too short, ambiguous and apparently reveal that, the presiding officer and the reader both were in a hurry and were not in a st ate of mind to maintain the the presiding officer as we ll as the reader of the court was unaware of the importance of the order sheets in judicial matters and they acted like administrative officers. the presiding officer has used the word suit called for hearing in the order sheet dated -, whereby, suit has been dismissed for non prosecution, without going into the last previous order sheet dated -- which was maintained by the reader the court and consisting of a short one line. it has not been fixed either for framing of issues or for adducing of evidence. neither the case was fixed for final arguments nor it can be fixed for hearing of the suit because the order sheet was maintai ned by the reader of the court and the reader under law is just authorized to adjourned the case in absence of presiding officer and he is not authorized to fix the case for hearing of the same. we again shocked how the learned district the learned district agreed with the learn ed trial court and the aggrieved party is to travel up to this court for getting remedy against this legal error. the order, dated --, whereby the trial court dismissed the suit of the present respondents, is without jurisdiction and void ab-initio as such it cannot be allowed to stand, as the date was not called on for hearing page therefore, the learned single the case is remitted back to the trial court with the direction that, the trail court to issue notice to the parties to attend the court, fixing any date in the summon and proceed the suit to adjudica te the same on merits. no orders as to cost. announced:- -- acting chief