page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan registry branch skardu. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. cpla. no. mst. hawa akhon ali markunja tehsil shigar district skardu. petitioner. shaikh muhammad hussain akhon ali markunja tehsil shigar district skardu. respondent. civil leave to appeal under order xiii of gilgit -baltistan supreme appellate court rules read with article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order against the judgment the learned gilgit baltistan chief court dated ... present: date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition has been directed against the impugned .. in csa no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court whereby the appeal of the respondent was accepted while setting aside the .. in cfa no. the learned district .. in civil suit no. the learned civil page the brief facts of the petition are that the petitioner and the respondent are the legal heirs of their late father akhond ali. the petitioner filed a suit for declaration claiming her legal shari share from the legacy of her father. the respondent denied the claim and contended that the whole property of her father had been divided between the legal heirs including the petitioner in the life time of their father through gift deeds. the authentication of the gift deeds was challenged by the petitioner terming the same as fraudulent and fake. the learned civil .. dismissed the suit on the ground that the petitioner had failed to prove the fraudulent execution of the said gift by the respondent. the petitioner feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the judgment of the learned trial court filed cfa no. in the court of district .. and the judgment of the learned trial court was set aside. the respondent being aggrieved challenged the judgment of the learned district -baltistan chief court which upon hearing vide .. in csa no. set aside the impugned judgment of the learned district the petitioner feeling aggrieved filed this le ave to appeal. this court vide .. issued no tice to the respondent. the case was heard on ... page -baltistan chief court is well reasoned and well founded. the same has been passed in accordance with law and facts of the case. he submits that the petitioner has been given her shari share from the legacy of her father in the year the same was reaffirmed in the year in the presence of the notables of th area. the property given to the petitioner from the legacy of her father is in the possession of the petitioner. he submits that there is no illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment hence no interference is warranted into it in the interest of we have heard the learned counsel for the respondent at length, perused the record of the case thoroughly and gone through the impugned judgment as well as the judgments of the courts below. the learned counsel has frankly conceded that althoug the petitioner has been given her shari share but it is not of the total property left by her late father. secondly, the careful perusal of the record reveals that the suit property was never been distributed amongst the legal heirs of late akhond ali as per muslim personal law. mere repeating of will in presence of two people at two or more than two times is not suff icient for execution of a valid gift. the mandatory provisions of a valid gift i.e. proper declaration and acceptance by and from the donor and donee have neither been fulfilled nor the same has been registered in accordance with law. page in view of the a bove and in our considered view the impugned .. in cs a no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is not well reasoned and well founded. consequently, we, converted this petition into an appeal and the same was allowed vide our short ... the impugned .. in csa no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the .. in civil suit no. assed by the learned civil .. in cfa no. the learned district the appeal is allowed. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?