page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. appeal no. in cpla no. mst. shabnam riaz muhammad jaffar resident of skardu. petitioner. provincial government government of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan. secretary education gilgit -baltistan. director education gilgit -baltistan. director colleges gilgit -baltistan ch airman inquiry committee. respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate for the petitioner. the advocate general alongwith date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed against the impugned .. in appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal, whereby, the appeal of the petitioner was dismissed. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal. consequently, notices were issued to the respondent for their appearance and the case was finally heard today. page the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner was initially appointed as teacher on contract basis in education department gilgit -baltistan. subsequently, the services of the petitioner were regularized by the respondent vide office order no. de(b) -() dated .. as mt- teacher bps- in f.g girls meddle school shinkhanigond skardu. he also submits that the petitioner was performing her duties with enthusiasm and to the entire satisfaction of the competent authorities. in the mean time, the respondent constituted an inquiry committee to determine the suitability eligibility of the teachers who have been appointed in in education department baltistan region and she had been performing her duties for hree and half years. he argues that the said inquiry committee after examining the testimonials of the petitioner including seventy one others teachers illegally and unlawfully declared the petitioner not suitable eligible as teacher. he add force to his submissions that the rinciple of locus -poenitentiae is fully applicable in the case of the petitioner as once a legitimate right accrued the same cannot be rescinded or withdrawn in any illegal manner. he continue his arguments while submitting that the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the findings of the said inquiry committee filed service appeal no. before the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal which upon hearing was dismissed vide impugned .. on the solely point that no departmental appeal was filed by the page petitioner before the competent authority i.e. the learned chief secretary gilgit -baltistan against the findings of the said inquiry committee. he submits that departmental appeal was filed the petitioner before the then learned chief minister gilgit -baltistan who was the competent authority being the chief executive of the government of gilgit -baltistan. he co ncludes his arguments that the impugned .. the earned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal is not sustainable being not well reasoned and well founded, hence, the same is required to be set aside. while saying so he relied upon the cases of muhammad nadeem arif igp punjab scmr ), nadeem ah med panawar government of sindh plc (cs ), executive district officer (education) rawalpindi muhammad yunas scmr and finally the case of executive district officer education rawalpindi mst. rizwana kausar and other s. the principle of locus poenitentiae would applicable when no lapse on part of employee or any fraud is committed in getting service or non -posses sion of requisite qualification and or the appointment to be made by an incompetent officer and finally the services had not been found unsatisfactory which lacks in the case of the petitioner. consequently, the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal is not sustainable. on the other hand, the learned ad vocate general, government of gilgit -baltistan alongwith .e. without conducting test interview and advertising the post in the newspapers. they also contend that her appoint ment was made against the rules. a special inquiry committee had been established to assess the eligibility suitability of the incumbents. in the light of the findings of the said committee her appointment order was rightly withdrawn by the respondents. they further contend that show cause no tice was issued to the petitioner. she appeared before the said committee but could not prove her eligibility as mt teacher, therefore, the initial illegal and unlawful appointment was withdrawn on .. by the competent authorities in accordance with law. they finally contend that the learned gilgit baltistan service tribunal has rightly dismissed the appeal of the petitioner vide impugned ... the same is required to be maintained and no interference is warranted into it being in accordance with law and service rule. we have heard the learned counsels appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal as well as fortified by the case laws referred by the perusal of the case page file transpires that the petitioner was initially appointed as mt teacher bps- and her services were regularized vide office order no. de (b)-() dated .. by the respondent no. being found satisfactory. the petitioner had performed her duties for approximately three and half years to the entire satisfacti on of her superiors. the respondent after lapse of considerable period constituted special recruitment committee on ... in the light of the recommendation of the said committee her services were terminated illegally and unlawfully on .. the appointment of the petitioner has been regularized by the respondent on .. on merit in education department. the services of the petitioner cannot be terminated except proven guilty of misconduct as she acquired legitimate expectancy after her services were regularized. in view of the above discussions and in our considered view once the right of the petitioner occurred, the same cannot be taken away by subsequent administrative order. consequently, we allow this appeal. the impugned judgme nt dated .. in appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal as well as the .. issued by the respondent are set aside. the respondent are directed to reinstate the petitioner forthwith from the date, her services were terminated. the respondent are also directed to pay release all the back benefits to the petitioner from the date of her regularization in services i.e. .. within three months. the copy of this order page be sen to the learned chief secretary, government of gilgit baltistan and to the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan for compliance. the petition is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?