page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. -ud-din, judge. civil appeal no. cpla no. mst. gumboori saleem khan, mulki khan mst. gul zareen katoor khan mulki khan residents of sher qillah tehsil punial district ghizer. petitioner appellant maherban shah bak hdur. bakhdur khan jangi khan, residents of sher qillah tehsil punial district ghizer. respondent present: date of hearing: --. date of elivery of detail judgment: ... judgment dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj this appeal has been arisen out of the impugned judgment in civil revision no. dated .., the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. wherein, the learned chief court dismissed th said civil revision by upholding both the judgments decrees of the learned court below. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that during the pendency of revision petition before the learned chief court i.e. on --, the petitioner app ellants submitted an application under order rule cpc for amendment of plaint and the learned chief court allowed the application. he further page submits that after allowing application for amendment the learned chief court invited amended plaint from the petitioner appellant and after submission of amendment plaint the respondent also filed amended written statement. he also submits that the petitioner appellant raised factual point in this amendment application and in the light of application the le arned chief court was legally bound to frame additional issues in the light of amended plaint, but the learned chief court has not frame the issue and without resolving issues giving an opportunity to petitioner enabling them to prove the ir case in the light of amendments, dismissed the revision, hence the impugned judgment the learned chief court is not sustain able and liable to be set aside. he further submits that the respondent vehemently alleged in his written statement that disputed pr operty was gifted by the father of the petitioner appellant to the respondents, and the petitioner appellant challenged the gift deed and the learned trial court also framed issue no., however, the respondent failed to prove the factual position of the gift in accordance with law and according to him the learned chief court has not followed the provisions of mohammadan law. he continued his arguments and submits that according to mohammadan law, there should be a declaration of a gift by the donor i addition to the following essential ingredients for validity of a gift: page a. an acceptance of gift expresses or implied by or on behalf of the donee. b. delivery of possession of the subject of gift by the donor to the done as mentioned in law. he also submits that the respondent have failed to substantiate he gift in accordance with law. he submits that all the three courts below have failed to draw inference on law point of gift. further the disputed land is in possession of namely () akbar shah shukoor khan and () mehr ali, who were necessary party of the suit, but they have not been impleaded as defendants, which caused great miscarriage of while saying so, he relied upon the reported judgments in case of muhammad abdullah khan niazi rais abdul ghafoor others, (i). (pld sc ), in case of ashiq hussain anther ashiq ali, (ii). scmr in case of muha mmad yaqoob through legal heirs feroz khan others, (iii). scmr ). he finally submits that the impugned judgment decree in civil revision no. dated .. of the learned chief ourt, the judgment decree in civil first appeal no. dated --, the additional district dated --, may please be set aside to meet the ends of justice. he conclude his ar guments and submits that he said page impugned judgment as well as the concurrent findings of the learned courts below are the result of the misconception of law, misreading and non -reading of the materials on the record hence the same are not tenable. on he other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment all three courts below. he submits that the said judgments have been passed on the basis of evidence material on record in accordance with law hence no interf erence is warranted and the same be upheld. we have heard the learned counsels at length, perused the case file and gone through all the three judgments decrees the learned courts below case laws relied upon by the learned counsel for the etitioners. in case of muhammad abdullah khan niazi abdul ghafoor others supra, the in case of ashiq hussain ashiq ali supra, the larger bench of the there are three es sentials of gifts under the mohammadan law: (i) a declaration of gift by the donor; (ii) an express or implied acceptance of the gift by the donee; page (iii) seisin or the delivery of possession of the gifted property by the donor to the donee. the delivery of possession by the donor as a conscious, unequivocal and distinct act on his part is necessary to perfect the gift made by him. in case of muhammad yaqoob fer oz khan others supra, the the gift without possession is void abinitio and could not be made to get the land in question mutated. the factum of gift cannot be proved by adducing ogent and convincing eviden ce. we are in agreement with the contentions raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner and case laws relied upon by him are applicable. in view of the above, the appeal is allowed, all the judgments decree(s) all three below i.e. (i) impugned judgment in civil revision no. dated .., (ii) the judgment decree in civil first appeal no. dated --, the additional district (iii) the judgment decree of learned civil dated --, are set aside. these were the reasons of our short ... the appeal is allowed. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not? page