page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. cpla no. -ud-din, chief judge. judge. mst. nani through (deceased) through legal heirs aslam sons and mst. haji bibi daughter of th deceased bibi nani residents of village ahmedabad tehsil ali abad district hunza nagar. sakhi ahmed jan son of ali member village grelt tehsil district hunza nagar. petitioner defendants. ghullam rasool son of late laim an shah mst. zar bano mst. bibi dalil mst. khair -ul-nisa daughters late laiman shah residents of haiderabad tehsil district hunza nagar respondent plainteffs. leave to appeal under article of gilgit baltistan self governance order read with relevant provisions of gilgit baltistan supreme appellate court rules against the impugned judgment decree dated single bench of learned chief gilgit baltistan in civil revision petition no. whereby the learned chief court has accepted the revision petition through out ex parte without any cogent reasons and against the mandatory provisions of law. for setting aside the impugned judgment decree dated holding the same illegal, ex- parte, without jurisdiction, based hasty manner. by converting this leave to appeal and accepted the appeal for the ends of present: dated of hearing:---. order the learned single baltistan, whereby the suit filed by the present respondent has been decreed ex -parte by accepting the revision petition no. c. rev. page the brief facts of the case are as such that the present respondent filed suit no. before the learned civil the trial court dismissed the suit on mer its. the present respondent being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the findings appealed against the same before the learned district but the same appeal has also got the same fate. the present respondent assailed the concurrent finding of the lower courts before the chief court gilgit -baltistan through revision petition no. the learned single -baltistan after receiving the revision petition issued notices to the present petitioner for their appear ance before the court and to defend the revision petition. the present petition despite service of summons failed to attend the court and the learned single hence, this leave appeal has been preferred before this court. at the very outset of the arguments, we confronted the learned counsel for the petitioner with the point that the impugned order the single judge, chief court, gilgit baltistan is ex -parte on account of non prosecution by the present petitioners, as such the impugned order can be challenged before chief court gilgit -baltistan and how the petitioner filed the instant peti tion before this court without exhausting the remedy available to them before the chief court. the learned counsel for the petitioner endeavored to meet the above point with the contention that there is not any specific provision in the cpc to page submit an a pplication for restoration re -admission of the revision petition, if the same is dismissed for default or accepted ex -parte for non prosecution. the counsel for the petitioner further stated that when a suit is dismissed in default or decreed ex -parte or decreed ex -parte than order rule and enable the aggrieved party to submit an application for setting aside the ex -parte decree or to restore the suit dismissed in default, likewise, when an appeal is dismissed or accepted ex -parte than order rul and are available to rescue the aggrieved party, but in case of revision neither there is any provision available in the cpc to dismiss the revision petition in default to accept the same ex -parte for non -prosecution nor there is any specific provi sion is available for restoration of such like orders. the supra points raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner prime facie are correct to the extent of no specific provision is available in the cpc for dealing the revision petition when the arties kept themselves absent from the courts of law, similarly, no specific provision is available in the cpc for restoration of revision petition if dismissed in default. the learned courts having no option but to exercise their inherent jurisdiction in appropriate cases where the parties let themselves absent from attending the courts of law without sufficient reasons with the intention to prevent or to abuse the process of courts. in this juncture, it is worth to mentioning the point that courts law particularly, the lower judiciary must differentiate absent of purpose of the parties either it was intentional or it was because of inevitable circumstances, furthermore, the courts avoid page technicalities when the attitude of the parties expose thei intention to prevent or to defeat the process of court. since, the courts dismiss the revision petitions in default or accept the revision petitions ex -parte for non prosecution in exercise of their inherent jurisdiction under section cpc as such a ggrieved parties of such orders may also invoke the inherent jurisdiction of the courts for setting aside such orders in proper cases. in the instant case, the petitioner have ignored the remedy available to them to invoke the inherent jurisdiction of the courts in which the impugned order passed, the petitioner came to this court directly through this leave to appeal, therefore, leave to appeal is refused. the petitioner are first to exhaust the remedy available to them before the learne chief court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. chief judge. judge. page