page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. mst. majida petitioner. din ullah others respondents. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith deputy advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the respondent no. nemo for the respondents. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal cancellation of bail has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the bail were granted to the respondent subject to furnishing of bail bonds in the sum of rs. (rupees ten lac only) with two reliable sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the learned trial court, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent accused but nobody appeared on behalf of them. briefly, the facts of the case are that on .., the respondent accused alongwith their princip al accused name ly saeed-ur-rehman abducted one mst. majida daughter of ashiq hussain resident of murtazaabad hunza. the accused were intercepted at barrier of police chowki ganish hunza while they page were taking the victim lady in a car bearing no. glt driven by accused re spondent dinullah. the accused took the victim girl in a hotel in gulmit gojal, where the main accused namely saeed -ur- rehman reportedly committed sexual intercourse with her. the local police registered fir no. on .. under section -b ppc against the respondent accused. the accused after their arrest were interrogated and subsequently they were sent to judicial lockup. the accused din ullah filed bail application in the learned trial court which upon hearing was dismissed vide ... the respondent din ullah muhammad nabi preferred criminal misc. no. criminal misc no. in the learned chief court for grant of bail which upon hearing were accepted and grant ed bail to the respondent accused, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the respondent accused have been nominated in the fir who were involved in the abduction of the petitioner. he also submit that respondent were intercepted by the police red handed while travelling in a car alongwith the petitioner after abducting her. the offences committed by the respondent accused are heinous in nature and against the society as well. the punishment provided for the said offences is life imprisonment, therefore, bail granted to them is not sustainable. he submits that the learned trial court has rightly refused the grant of bail to the respondent accused whereas the learned chief court fell in error while granting them page bail on the grounds of further inquiry which is not tenable. he prays that the bail granting order graciously be recalled. we have heard the lea rned counsel for petitioner at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned .. the learned chief court. the tentative perusal of the record of the case file transpires that the respondent accused have not been attributed any specific role in the commission of the alleged offence. further, he learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality or infirmity in the impugned order the learned chief court. in view of the abov discussions, the leave to appeal is refused. consequent thereto, the impugned .. the learned chief court is affirmed. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?