page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. muhammad naseem son of muhammad ghulam others. petitioners. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan others. respondents. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed agains the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby the writ petition filed by the petitioner was dismissed in limini observing that the case was of civil nature. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondents. the case was finally heard today. briefly the facts of the cas are that the petitioner are professional and registered contractors of the food department gilgit -baltistan who have been awarded contract of transportation page of wheat from bulk depot juglote to gilgit, gahkuch and various others districts and tehsils of gilgit -baltistan as per agreed terms of contract dated .. with the respondent no. the respondent have paid the escalation amount for the year in line with the aforementioned agreement but the petitioner have not been paid the scalation amount for the year to and onward. the petitioner being aggrieved filed writ petition no. in the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court which was dismissed holding that the petitioner should have filed a civil suit for claiming escalation amount instead of writ petition. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner have completed the contract of transportation of wheat to the various districts and tehsils of gilgit -baltistan from bulk depot juglote as per agreed terms of agreement. he further submits that the respondent were bound to pay the escalation amount to the petitioner as per clause of the agreement. they, however, have paid the partial amount on account of escalation for the year whereafter the respondent illegally denied to pay the said amount. he also submits that the respondent are paying the escalation amount regularly to the natco for transportation of the wheat from islamabad to bulk depot juglote. he further submits that the petitioner being aggrieved filed writ petition before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court which was dismissed in limini vide .. being not maintainable. he finally submits that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has failed to page apply its judicial mind while passing the impugned order, therefore, the same is not tenable and liable to be set aside. while saying so he relied upon case law reported as scmr on the other hand, the learned advocate general supports the impugned order the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. he contends that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has rightly dismissed the writ petition of the petit ioners as factual controversies were involved which have to be resolved after recording of evidence of the respective parties. he reiterates that the adequate, efficacious and alternate remedy was available to the petitioner by filing civil suit in the competent court of law which has not been availed. he concludes that the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is well reasoned and well founded which is sustainable and no interfer ence is warra nted thereto. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. we are in agreement with the learned advocate general that the writ does not lies where alternate remedy is available to the petitioners. secondly, in a case where factual controversy is involved the jurisdiction of writ cannot be invoked. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the page impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is maintain ed. the petitioners, however, would be at liberty to seek alternate remedy available to them in accordance with law before the competent court of jurisdiction, if they so advised. the petition is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?