page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla. no. muhammad amin shah through lrs petitioners. sheraz khan another respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... order. this leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned .. passed in writ petition no. by the learned chief court whereby the said writ petition of the petitioner was dismissed by upholding the .. the learned district briefly the facts of the case are that the respondent filed a civil suit no. in the learned civil court gu pis yasin entailing to ex -parte decree dated .., in the said suit. the petitioner filed civil misc. no. in the learned trial court for set ting aside the ex -parte decree. upon hearing the learned trial court set aside the ex -parte decree and restored the case vide .. subject to payment of cost of rs. by the page petitioners. the respondent feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with, filed civil revision no. which upon hearing was allowed on ... the petitioner feeling aggrieved filed writ petition no. before the learned chief court which u pon hearing was dismissed vide impugned ... it is not disputed that the proceedings of the suit have almost been completed by the learned trial court. it is also an admitted fact that the suit property is in possession of the petitioners. as per record of the case, the petitioner are intentionally using delaying tactics in order to prolong their possession on the disputed property. as per averments of the respondent the application under order rule cpc filed by the petitioner was barred by time for a period of months. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the civil suit filed by the respondent was conducted through attorney on behalf of the petitioner who was continuously appearing in the learned trial court. he submits that due to attorney illness, he neither informed the petitioner nor he himself appeared in the proceedings, consequently, the matter was decided ex -pate. he reiterates that the petitioner moved an application under order rule cpc for restoration of the suit which was allowed by the learned trial court vide .. subject to pay ment of cost of rs. -. subsequently, it was reversed by the learned first appellate ourt vide .. and the same page was upheld by the learned chief court vide impugned ... he further submits that the learned chief court as well as the learned district court fell in error by reversing the orders for restoration of suit. he prays that the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court and the .. the learned district may pleased set aside being not sustainable. on the other hand, the learned co unsel for the respondent supports the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. he contends that the petitioner have been given sufficient time to appear and plead their case but they deliberately remained absent by using delaying tactics on one or another pretext. he also contends that the petitioner used these tactics because the disputed property was is in their possession. he further contends that the application under order rule cpc filed by the petitioner was barred by time for a considerable period of months which was wrongly allowed by the learned trial court. he prays that the impugned .. in writ petition no. by the learned chief court may graciously be affirmed. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties, perused the record of the case file and gone through th impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court as well as the judgment orders page of the learned courts below. in our considered view, the case has to be decided on merit rather it was disposed off on technica ground which is not tenable in law. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court as well as the .. passed in civil revision no. by the learned district the .. in civil misc. appeal no. the learned trial court is maintained, however, the cos imposed of rs. is remitted. the civil suit no. be treated as pending adjudication. the case is remanded back to the learned trial court gupis yasin to hear and decide the said civil suit no. afresh on its own merits without being influenced by any of the observation(s) earlier made by its own court, first appellate court, revisional court and or by this court. the parties are directed to maintain the status quo till the cognizance is taken by the learned trial court. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?