page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. ana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. muhammad afzal wali joo shigar skardu gilgit -baltistan. petitioner appellant the state .. respondent). leave to the order judgment of chief court dated .., whereby death sentence of petitioner appeallant has been converted into life imprisonment and co -accused (father of the appellant) has been acquitted from the charges. for setting aside the same and acquittal of the petitioner appellant from the charges to meet the ends of justice. resent:- malik haq nawaz senior advocate for the petitioner. `. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: --. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge this leave to appeal has been filed by the petitioner calling in question the impugned .., the learned chief court gilg it-baltistan in criminal appeal no. whereby the dealth sence of the petitioner appellant was converted into life imprisonment and the co -occused namely wali ju father of the accused was aquitted from the charges. the fir no. police station shigar skardu baltistan lodged by haji fida page hussain (p w-) real brother of the accused under section and arm ordinance against the present petitioner alongwith ten () others co -occused. initially the said fir was registered for commission of murder wazir muhammad ali deceased. the brief hi story of the case in hand is that on .. at about at a distance of about half of a kilometer from the police station, haji muhammad ali (deceasede) was proceeding towards his home after offering zohar prayers. he was been attacked by muhammad a fzal (present petitioner) sikandar wali, munir, mushtaq wali joo, wali joo taqi joo, ejaz hussain, ashraf hussain, shafqat, muhammad kazim muhammad hussain and ghullam mehdi ali with firearms, stones, ax and dandas resultantly, the deceas ed got injured and the accused dragged the deceased into the compound of their house and again attacked him and killed the deceased brutally. the death body was recovered from the compound of the convicted accused petitioner. the motive behi nd this murder was rift difference between the deceased and the accused. the learned counsel for the petitioner contended that in the fir complainant charged persons for commision of the said murder of the deceased wazir muhammad ali, without assigning any specifit role to any of the accused including the petitioner appellant. that complainant is not an eye -witness and as per his deposition he derived information of incident from pw mst. amina, whose name page is also not mentioned in the fir and she was examined da ys after the occurrence and that too without any explanation and even in her statement she did not assign any role to any of the accused and improved her statement in the court. that during investigation accused namely haji muhammad hussain, kazim, ashra and munir were released u and placed in column no. of the final report, however they were summoned by the trial court and faced trial. that prosecution examined pws and tendered in evidence the reports of various experts through learned distri ct attorney. that on conclusion of trial the learned trial court acquitted co accused from all the charges and convicted appellant and his years old father and awarded following punishment vide .. (copy attached). muhammad afzal (appellant) death and rs. fine u -a cr.p.c to be paid the legal heirs of deceased. wali joo (acquitted co -accused) life imprisonment and rs. fine to be paid to legal heirs of deceased and in defa ult thereof to undergo six months ri. that the appellant assailed the above judgment before chief court and chief court acquitted accused wali joo and converted death sentence of appellant to life imprisonment vide .. (copy at tached) page that the judgment of the chief court is not sustainable in the eyes of law and the judges extended all reasonable benefit of doubts in favour of prosecution instead of accused. that the judges of chief court failed to appreciate that when prosecuti on evidence is not believed and the conviction has to be based on the statement of accused u cr.p.c., then the said statement is to be accepted in to. that the appellant was well within his right to exercise the right of self defen ce, when deceased ade a crude attempt on his life and intruded into his house like a wild bull. that from the own record of the prosecution and the attending circumstances a crystal clear case of self defence was made out and same also finds mentioned in the judgment of tri al court, which aspect has not been properly adverted to by the learned first appellate court. that all the eye witnesses are not only closely related to the deceased but have also been completely shattered during the course of cross -examination and failed to establish their presence at the place of occurrence. that there was only independent pw ghulam mehdi, who has been abandoned by the prosecution for sinister motive and i.o. (pw admitted that said pw has not stated that any fir shot was opened on the road (place of occurrence). that very strangely no crime empty of bore pistol was ever found at the road and the one crime empty was sound in holaster of the accused, which only is sufficient to discard whole the prosecution case. that the recovery witnesses are police official and no independent witness has been associated and mandatory provisions of section cr.p.c. have page been violated. that the two eye -witnesses namely waxir fida hussain (pw-) and pw (shakir hussain) were also witnesses on inc riminating articles of the day of occurrence but i.o. pw (sho) admitted that they did not disclose before him that they are eye -witnesses of the occurrence. that there is gross misreading of evidence on the part of trial court as well as appellate cour and the appellant has been unjustly denied acquittal and right of self defence has been denied to the appellant, which is divine gifted. that under islamic law of which aspect has not been taken note of by both the courts. we have heard the learned counsel for both the learned counsel contesting parties, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned judgmend dated .. as well as the .. the learned district chief judge. judge. page whether the case is fit to be reported or not?