page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan cr. misc. no. syed jaffar shah, muhammad yaqoob, jj. muhammad rawan faqir, fazal khan gulsher khanbery, tehsil darel district diamer at present district jail di amer chilas accused petitioner the state through police station khanbery respondent leave to the judgment -- the chief court whereby the bail application vide no. cr. misc of the petitioner has been dismissed. present: advocate assisted by advocate for the petitioner advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the state malik haq nawaz, advocate for complainant date of he aring --. r. syed jaffar shah, -- page single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan in criminal misc. no. whereby declin ing bail to the petitioner in a case registered under section ,,,, ppc read with section -a.o vide fir no and with police station khanbery district diamer. the brief facts narrated in the fir no. of polic station khanbery are that one mubarak shah son of alam khan, resident of khanbe ry made a compla int to sho police station khanbe ry alleging therein that he is a employee in the fisheries department government of gilgit -baltistan. on -- at about a.m. he and his uncle muhammad nousharwan and employee of fisheries department, hazarat wali, and nadir khan were proceed ing from khanb ery to gilgit in connection ith official matters in a vehicle being driven by one raqibullah, when they reached near a place known as sigali dome he found the road was blocked, and in the meantime accused muhammad rawan, wah eed and fazal open ed fire upon muhammad nousharwan who died at the spot while two inmates of the vehicle namely nadir khan and driver of vehicle raqib ullah sustained bullet injuries on their bodies and after commission of the crime the accused fled away from the scene of occurance. on receiving information, the police registered fir no. under section ,,,, ppc and started inv estigation of the case the local police arrested the accused persons on the same day. page after their arrest, the petitioner and co -accused moved application for grant of bail in the court of judicial magistrate chilas who grante bail to co -accused namel wahee d, while application to the extent present petitioner was dismissed. the application made before the sessions we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and advocate general fo the state at length. the learned counsel for petitioner mainly contended that petitioner are entitled for grant of bail as per rule of consistency, delay in conclusion of trial and on the ground of further inquiry, according to le arned counsel for peti tioners, co-accused namely waheed with imilar role has been released on bail by judicial magistrate. they further contended that no specific role has been attributed to the present petitioner and it is yet to be determines as to out of three assailants whose fire shot hit the deceased and injured two persons as such the case falls within the mischief of section () cr.p.c. on the other hand the learned advocate general while controverting the above submission contended that the occurrence is a brought day light occurrence, the petitioner have been directly charged in the fir, that the recovery of weapon of offence has been made on their pointa tion of petitioner soon after the occurrence, that page the occurrence is seen by the natural eye witn ess including two injured witnesses. he submitted that though the co-accused namely waheed was granted bail by the judicial magistrate, the same order has been challenged and the application for cancellation of his bail is pending subjudice before sessions having heard the learned counsel for the parties and gone through the available record, we have come to the conclusion that the petitioner are directly charged in a promptly lodged fir, the occurrence had taken place in a brought day li ght, recovery of weapon of offence has been made soon after the occurrence, motive of commission of offence has also been established, the occurrence is seen by three witnesses including two injured persons whose statements have been recorded without any i nordinate delay. so far as delay in conclusion of the trial is concerned, the trial court on the direction of this court has furnished comments, from perusal of comments and order sheets placed on record it reveals that the challan of the case was sub mitted on -- and thereafter the case could not be proceeded with either due to non -availability of defence counsel, district attorney or in absence of presiding officer, as such the delay cannot be attributed to prosecution solely. any how this del ay in conclusion of cannot be a good ground for grant of bail in absence of any specific provision. so far as rule of consistency is page concerned, the order of judicial magistrate, granting bail to co accused is admittedly challenged before trial court and pending subjudice. for what has been discuss ed above, we find no substance on the ground agitated by the learned counsel for petitioner s, as from tentative assessment of the available material a prima facie case is made out against the petitioners. we dismiss the petition, however we direct the trial court to conclude the trial of the case within days of this order without being influenced by our above observations which are tentative in nature. our short order by virtue of which the leave was efused is treated as part of this order. leave refused and petition dismissed.