page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. muhammad ayub petitioner. dr. sikandar hayat respondent. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. johar ali khan advocate -on-record on behalf of the respondent. date of hearing: ... order. this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the cfa no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed holding it meritless by maintaining the .. of the learned senior civil ., hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard today. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the respondent filed a civil suit no. in the court of learned senior civil millions as damages for defamation. upon hearing the said suit was decreed ex -parte by the learned civil .. without page framin the issues. the said order was upheld by learned chief court vide impugned .. by dismissing the appeal of the petitioner. per learned counsel, no summon notice was served upon the petitioner by the learned trial court or by the respon dent. similarly, the legal requirements have not been fulfilled by the learned trial court as well as by the learned chief court. he submits that the reporter and the editor of the newspaper have not been impleaded as necessary party. per learned counsel, the impugned order as well as the order the learned trial court are not sustainable. he prays that the said impugned order the learned chief court and the order of the learned trial court may graciously be set aside in circumstances. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned order the learned chief court. he contends that ample opportunities were provided to the petitioner to appear and defend his case but he did not turn up inspite of issuance of notices to him. he also contends that the petitioner filed civil miscellaneous no. in the learned trial court for settin aside its ... the said application under order rule cpc was barred by time for a period of months and days which was also rightly dismissed by the learned trial court. per learned counsel, the impugned order as well as the order the learned trial court are well reasoned and well founded, hence, the same may pleased be maintained. page we have heard the learned counsels for respective partied at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned or der as well as the orders of the learned trial court. admittedly, the legal requirements were not fulfilled by the learned courts below, hence, the impugned order as well as the orders the learned trial court are not well reasoned and well founde d. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned chief court and the .. the learned trial court a re set aside. the case is remanded back to the learned trial court to hear and decide the same afresh in accordance with law without being influenced by any of the observation(s) earlier made either by the learned chief court or by the learned trial court itself. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.