page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal. no. in cpla. no. muhammad saeed others petitioners. provincial government others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... date of announcement of judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition filed by the petitioner was dismissed by directing the respondent to strictly follow their own imposed conditions laid down at serial no. of the impugn ed advertisement. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case was firstly heard on .. and the judgment was reserved which could not be delivere due to the sad demise of judge (late). later on, the case was fixed for re -hearing consequently, it was heard on .. again the judgment was reserved. briefly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner are the residents of various districts of gilgit -baltistan who were appointed on various posts and scales on contract basis under the municipal committees and district council in the different districts of gilgit -baltistan. the petitioner have been rendering the ir contractual services against their posts which were extended by the respondent from time to time. the main contentions of the petitioner are that they are entitled for regularization of their service against the posts held by them for the last five ye ars. earlier the contract services of more than fifty contract employees have been regularized by the respondent in the said department in the year to on the basis of such regularization of their colleagues the petitioner filed a departmental appeal to the respondent for regularization of their services but the respondent instead of regularizing their services advertised the posts held by the petitioner vide advertisemen date .. in the daily for fill in the ame through eligible candidates. altho ugh the respondent have bound themselves as appears at serial of the said advertisement that preference would be given to the contract contingent employees who a re already serving in the said department. the petitioner did not apply for the said post and filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court calling in page question the said advertisement. the learned chief court, upon hearing, dismissed the same with the direction to the respondent to follow their own imposed conditions laid down at serial no. of the impugned advertisement, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner have been appointed by the respondent keeping in view their age, eligibility, qualification and experience. he also submits that the petitioner have spent more than five years of their precious time, hence, they are entitled for their reg ularization against the vacant posts. per learned counsel almost all the employees of different districts of gilgit -baltistan who were ini tially appointed on contract basis were regularized by the respondents. he further submits that the petitioner earlie moved departmental appeal which was turned down by the respondents. the petitioner have been discriminated which is against the golden principle of natural justice. he reiterates that the petitioner have served more than five years who have become enti tled for their regularization irrespective of their age factor. in case of their termination they would be come jobless without their fault. he prays that the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is not sustainable and liable to be set aside. on the other hand, the learned advocate general supports the impugned .. in writ petition page no. the learned chief court. he contends that the petitioner were appoint ed by the respondent purely on contract basis against the temporary posts without fulfilling the requisite codal formalities of the relevant service rules. the respondent kept the scope for the petitioner to apply in response to the advertisement. in ca se they found eligible in the test interview they will be taken against the vacant posts. they, however, can not claim as a matter of right for regularization by virtue of their contract appointment. while saying so he relied upon the case laws reported as scmr and pld sc wherein the petitions in identical cases have been dismissed by the apex court of pakistan. per learned advocate general, the case of the petitioner is quite different from the case of those fifty employees whose service have been regularized and there is no similarity in both the cases at all. he contends that the writ petition of the petitioner has rightly been dismissed by the learned chief court which according to him is well reasoned and well founded being passed i accordance with law. he prays that the impugned judgment may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned judgment. we have also been fortified by the case laws referred by the learned advocate general which are applicable. admittedly, the petitioner were appointed on contract basis without fulfilling the requisite criteria and relevant codal page formalities of the service rules. neither he impugned posts were advertised nor any test interview was conducted by the departmental selection committee (dsc). furthermore, the respondent already pledged through their advertisement to give preference to the petitioners, in case they apply for the advertised posts and found eligible. in view of the above discussions, we dismiss this appeal as the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any infirmity in the impugned judgment. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.