page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cpla. no. in civil appeal. no. muhammad issa khan others petitioners. muhammad afzal khan others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. rehmat ali advocate -on-record on behalf of respondents. date of hearing: ... order. this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court whereby the said civ il revision filed by the respondent was allowed by returning of the original documents to the petitioner for presenting the same in the trial proceedings of the case. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the respondent filed civil suit or partition which upon hearing was dismissed vide .. and the same was maintained by the learned appellate court. subsequently the petitioner filed civil revision no. and also filed civil misc. no. praying the rein to file certain documents which were page turned down by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court vide ... he further contended that the petitioner also moved civil misc. no. praying that the documents sale deed attached wi th the petition may be allowed to make part of record which was allowed vide .., and remanded the case back to the learned trial court to resume the trial of the case. he submits that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court fell in err or in allowing the civil revision and remanding the case to the learned trial court is not sustainable. as per learned counsel the impugned order is against the spirits of order rule cpc as the documents not annexed with plaint alongwith the list of the documents can not be allowed at revisional stage. on the other hand the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned order being well reasoned well founded. as per learned counsels for the respective parties have equal opportunities produce documents and rebut them. he submits that in the impugned order no interference is warranted. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through impugned order .. the learned gilgit baltistan chief court. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned order the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. page in view of the above discussions, we dismiss this appeal. consequently, the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is maintained. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?