page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla. no. muhammad arif svp rbc (r) and senior coordinator khashrote gilgit. ghulam mustafa og -ii manager nbp sost branch nagaral gilgit. amir wali khan og -ii nbp gilgit. gul abbas og -ii regional office nbp gilgit. amir ali assistant nbp gulmit branch hunza. izzat baig og-ii nbp main branch gilgit. petitioner s. national bank of pakistan through president nbp head office i.i chadrigar road karachi. national bank of pakistan regional office gilgit. national accountability bureau through direc tor general, nab head quarter islamabad. director general fciw, nab head quarter islamabad. deputy director general national accountability bureau gilgit. amjad zaman khan investigating officer ficw rnc boys hostel no. rawal road rawalpindi. federal investigating agency gilgit through deputy director fia gilgit. respondent s. leave to impugned judgments orders dated .. passed in civil review petition no. and judgment order dat ed .. in writ petition no. the division bench gilgit baltistan chief court, whereby learned division bench dismissed civil review petition and writ petition. present: -baltistan. page date of hearing: ... date of announcement of judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition was directed against the impugned .. in review petition no. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. the petitioner initially filed writ petition no. which upon hearing was dismissed being groundless. instead of filing leave to appeal in this court, they preferred to file review petition which was also dismissed being meritless. briefly the facts of the case are that the petitioner were the officials employees of the national bank of pakistan regional office gilgit -baltistan who granted loans to the different borrowers against the relevant provisions of rules and regulations under national bank of pakistan loan advancing policy subseq uently the petitioner with the collusion of the borrowers were involved in the fraudulent practices causing huge loss to the government exchequer. the nab authorities initiated inquiries and sought information under section of the nab ordinance against the petitioner in the year vide its letter dated .. which is reproduced as under: page quote government of pakistan national acc ountability bureau rmc boys hostel no. rawal road rawalpindi ph fax no.() fciw nab(r sep, saeed khan svp, legal affairs wing hr management administration wing nab coordinator nation al bank of pakistan, head office, i,i chaundgrgar road karachi. fax subject: information under section of nab ordinance, inquiry against muhammad arif svp rbc (retired) national bank of pakistan gilgit others the concerned quarter at national bank of pakistan be directed to provide the following information record which is required in connection with the subject inquiry being conducted at this bureau. a. original personal files of following national bank of pakis tan officers officials with their bio data showing details of their present previous postings, attested copies of their cnics, photographs, account opening forms, ss cards and statements of their accounts since inception. i. muhammad arif svp rbc (retired) chief coordinator gilgit. ii. vp roc regional office gilgit. iii. ex -manager national bank of pakistan, sost branch gilgit. iv. -ii, ex manager national bank of pakistan sost branch gilgit. v. -ud-din alqultoshi, og -i national bank of pakistan sost branch gilgit. vi. -iii manager national bank of pakistan sost branch gilgit. vii. regional business chief, ro gilgit. viii. credit manager sost branch gi lgit. ix. temporary assistant national bank of pakistan sost branch gilgit. x. og -iii cashier national bank of pakistan sost branch gilgit. page b. details of record pertaining to the subject matter handed over or sought by fia, attested copies of record sent to fia are required. c. list of national bank of pakistan officers staff at nbp. sost branch since .. till to date. these lists should al so contain their present place of posting since joining the bank i.e. place of posting, tenure and designation assignment. d. attested copies of departmental inquiries conducted against the nbp. officers officials found negligent involved in the case and de tail of the punitive action taken by the bank against delinquents be intimated. e. list of all borrowers who availed loans, running finance and other credit facilities from bp. sost branch gilgit since .., attested copies of relevant sanctions advise and present status of all such finances be provided. it should be ensured that copies of the required record must contain complete texts of the original (both sides where applicable) and the original record should be kept separately with the custodian that the same is readily available where required by the concerned accountability court nab. the requisite information record be sent to lt col amjad zaman khan, investigation officer, fciw, rmc boys hostel no.iii rawal road rawalpindi by .. positively. yours truly, -sd- karim akram khan director fciw. unquote further the nab authorities vide its letter dated .. addressed to government of pakistan page national accountability bureau rmc boys hoste no. rawal road rawalpindi ph fax no.() fciw nab(r june dd special prosecutor nab rawalpindi sub office gilgit. fax subject: case titiled muhammad arif etc nbp., preferred by writ petition before the chief court, gilgit baltistan. reference: your letter no. nab glt () dated ... the subject investigation is under progress at this bureau on a complaint lodged by nbp. regional office gilgit dated .. (copy of copy enclosed) on the allegation of misappropriation and embezzlement by way of misuse of authority as leveled under section of nao and schedule thereto against the subject persons. therefore it may be submitted before the hon'ble chief court gilgit -baltistan that since the subject case is not being conducted u -d of nao therefore permission is not required to be obtained from the governor, state bank of pakistan u -d of nao -sd- imran majeed a dy. dir (coord) fciw. on receipt of the said notice the petitioner filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court which was decided on .. by holding that there is no bar to initiate enquiries investigations by nab against the petitioners. it was further he ld that since no fundamental right of the petitioner has been infrin ged by any authority including nab who exercised its powers to initiate inquiries proceedings a gainst the petitioner in accordance with law. consequently, the petition was dismissed being devoid of merits. the petitioner instead of filing page leave to appeal in this court preferred to file review petition vide civil misc no. on th ground that the nab has no authority to initiate inquiries investigations against the petitioner in absence of the approval from the governor, state bank of pakistan as provided under section -d of the nab ordinance it was averred therein that he petitioner being the employees of banking organization and disciplinary rules have already been framed by the organization for penalization of the officials in connection with any illegality or using access powers with regard to financial affairs. the petitioner have faced the inquiries conducted by the department and all of them have already undergone through the penalties awarded by the bank. resultantly some have been dismissed from their service and some of the petitioner have reversed from their positions to lower grades and scales, that the nab fia are legally not authorized to conduct inquiries inve stigations in the cases of loans by the banking officials and they are saved under section -d of nab ordinance unless prior permission from the state bank of pakistan would not be obtained. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner are the high officials of the national bank of pakistan and they have given loans to various barrowers in accordance with the relevant provisions of rules and regulation of national bank of pakistan on the basis of loan advancing policy he further submits that the mandatory procedural pre-condition under page section (d) of the national accountability ordinance has not been adopted and according to which reference by governor state bank of pakistan is mandatory to obtain approval from governor state bank of pakistan which has yet not been obtained by the respondent no. and the respondent unauthorized ly and illegally made request to the nab authorities to take the petitioner for inquiry which is unlawful and i llegal as per provisio of nab ordinance. the learned counsel for the petitioner also contends that a civil suit filed by the national bank of pakistan on the same subject which preclude the nab to entertain the complaint of nbp and to investigate or conduct inquiry against the petitioners. he also contends that it is a case of double jeopardy as no one can be vexed twice for the same offence. the petitioner have already been prosecuted by the departmental authorities under rules. he also contends that the impugned .. in civil misc. no. and the judgment .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court may pleased be set aside and the respondent be restrained thereto to conduct inquiries inves tigations against the petitioner as sanction approval has not been obtained from the governor, state bank of pakistan. while submitting so he support his contention by relying upon case laws reported as pcr.lj, ), pld, lahore ), (pld karachi, ), (pld sc, and ncr criminal ). page he finally submits that the impugned .. as well as the .. the learned chief court are the result of misconception of law and misreading of the facts of the case, hence, the same are not tenable and required to be set aside to meet the ends of justice. the said judgments of the chief court are contradictory to its own un reported judgment passed in a similar nature case i.e. qal ali etc the state through nab. on the other hand the learned additional deputy prosecutor general for nab at gilgit and national bank of pakistan submit that the writ petition no. was filed by the petitioner in the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court to defeat the investigation process initiated by the ab authorities in order to unearth the truth and punish to the fraudsters. they su bmit that no fundamental right, if any, of the petitioner has been infringed by any authority including nab. the process of inquiry inv estigation cannot be prohibited precluded by exercising the extraordinary jurisdiction of the courts. they further submit that prime facie the petitioner have committed offences under section of nab ordinance which can only be determined after conducting inquiry investigation. they further submit that the petitioner were employed with the financial institution and they might have faced the departmental inquiries investigation etc. the notices issued by the respondent have been page issued under section of nab ordinance whereby any involved person can be investigated for the offences mentioned therein. the departmental inquiry can be held and initiating of inquiry investigation under the provisions of criminal law does not amount to double jeopardy. in case the authorities empowe red under the law are of the opinion that any matter is required to be inquired or investigated they cannot be restrained on the xcuse of departmental inquiries. they contend that under section of nab ordinance, no exemption has been granted to any clas of people. accordingly section -d of nab ordinance has been provided for the purpose of imprudent loans but never restrict the scope of section of the said ordinance which is purely meant for the corruption and corrupt practice falling under that pro vision of law. consequently, the petition being groundless was dismissed by the chief court. they further submit that review petition was not maintainable which was filed just to gain time and to frustrate the process of inquiries investigations initiated by nab. the petition is also time barred and liable to dismissed. the learned chief court has ri ghtly dismissed the same. they relied upon the case laws reported as scmr and (pld karachi ). they finally submit that the impugned .. in civil misc no. and the .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan are well reasoned and well founded, hence, no interfere nce is warr anted thereto. page we have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in civil misc. no. and the .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan as well as the case laws relied upon by the learned counsels for the respective parties. we have also gone through the provisions of sections and of the nab ordinance which are reproduced as under: section cognizance of offences: (a) (b) a reference under this ordinance shall be initiated by the national accountability bureau on (i). a reference received from the appropriate gove rnment; or (ii). receipt of a complaint; or (iii). its own record. (c) (d) the responsibility for inquiry into an investigation of an offence alleged to have been committed under this ordinance shall rest on the nab to the exclusion of any other agency or authority, unless any such agency or authority is required to do so by the chairman (nab) or by an officer of the nab duly authorized by him. (e). the chairman nab and such members, officers the learned advocate -on-record servants of the na shall have and exercise, for the purpose of an inquiry or investigation the power to arrest any person, and all the powers of an officer in -charge of police station under the code, and for that purpose may cause the attendance of any person, and when and if the assistance of any agency, police officer or any other official or agency shall render such assistance provided that no person shall be arrested without the permission of the chairman (nab) or any officer (of nab) duly authorized by the chairman nab. the plain reading of sub section (e) of section of the ordinance insists that for purpose of an inquiry or investigation, the officer so inquiring investigating shall have all the powers as are available with officer –in-charge of a police station unde the code, which are so provided under chapter xiv of the criminal procedure code. needless to add here that chapter xiv of the cr. pc also page includes the section to cr.pc which deal with power to require attendance, recording of statement. since rom the bare reading of section (b) of the ordinance it becomes clear that an inquiry investigation could be initiated only by the chairman or an officer of the nab, duly authorized by him, thus the officer, so authorized for conducting such an inquiry investigation, shall enjoy all powers as are available to an officer -in-charge of a police station within meaning of the chapter xiv of the criminal procedure code. section power to call information the chairman nab (an of the nab duly authorize by him) may, during the course of inquiry or investigation of an offence under this ordinance or any rule or order made thereunder: (a). call for information from any person for the purpose of satisfying himself whether there has been any contraven tion of the provisions of this ordinance or any rule or order made thereunder; a bare reading of the said provisions reveals that if an inquiry or investigation is ordered in respect of offence punishable under the ordinance by chairman nab then during the course of the said inquiry or investigation of such offence any officer duly authorized by chairman is competent to call for information from any person for the purpose of satisfying himself whether there has been any contravention of the provisions of the ordinance or any rule or order made thereunder. thus it is manifest that it empowers the authorized officer to examine any person acquainted with the facts and circumstance of the case. any person includes witnesses or an accused even. we are in complete agreement and page acknowledge the legal position that one cannot be compelled to answer a question which can expose him to criminal charges and that one cannot be forced to be a witness which is so evident from the section of the code and article () of the constitution. both the said section and article are reproduced as unde r:- section. examination of witness by police () any police officer making an investigation under this chapter or any police officer not below the rank as the provincial government may, by general or special order, prescribe in this behalf, acting on the requisition. of such officer many examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted with the facts and said circumstances of the case. () such person shall be bound to answer all questions relating to such case put to him by such officer, other than questions the answer to which would have a tendency to expose him to a criminal charge or to a penalty or forfeiture. article of the constitution of islamic republic of pakistan. no person (a) .. (b) shall, when accused of an offence, be compelled to be a witness against himself. however, the criminal administration of therefore, above referred article and provision shall no justify the investigating officer for non -examination of the accused nor shall disentitle him (investigating officer) from asking a question which he feels necessary for proper interrogation. this is the object because of which the word examination has been used with deliberation under this chapter. keeping in view the above touchstone, let examine whether call up notices impugned in this petition, prime facie serves its purpose or otherwise. perusal of the said notice and reflects that matter (inquiry being conducted) a reference as to for what purposed the examination and production of documents or necessary, is evident, therefore, call -up notices cannot said to be entirely illegal. page without prejudice to the above, wh at would we like to make it clear that issuance of notice, even if found to be not within its purpose and object, yet a wrongly issued notice shall not, under any case, justify quashing the route (an investigation, initiated under section (c) of the rdinance or be taken as a sword to keep the prosecution out of its right to dig out truth for simple that an authorized officer (investigating officer) was negligent of not issuing notice properly. a mere irregularity or even illegality on the part of th investigating officer in following procedure within meaning chapter xiv of the criminal procedure code, shall not cost an offence to go un -attended because an irregularity or illegality in procedure may be cured but not the impacts and effects of an offence if the same is let un -touched despite its being coming to light. the moment and offence is committed the effect thereof start but a procedural error, irregular and even illegality by investigating officer can well be judged by the competent court towa rd the effects and consequences. in view of the above discussions and the case laws relied upon by the learned counsel for nab and national bank of pakistan regional office gilgit -baltistan and in our considered view the nab authorities cannot be pre cluded to issue call -up notices or restrain to conduct an inquiry investigation under nab ordinance the case laws preferred by the learned counsel for the petitioner are distinguishable whereas the case laws relied upon by the learned counsels for he respondent are applicable. page consequently, we hold that the nab authorities are lawfully authorized to conduct inquiry investigate and interference into the authorities of the nab would seriously prejudice to the prosecution towards its right in probing into an investigation inquiry of an offence. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment order. the impugned judgment is well reasoned and well founded, therefore, no interference is warranted. consequen thereto, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. the impugned .. in civil misc. no. and the .. in writ petition no. the earned chief court gilgit -baltistan are maintained. the appeal is dismissed. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?