page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. muhammad alam aziz pingal tehsil gupis district hizer through his legal representatives:- muhamm ad zabar khan muhammad yaqo ob. zarak shah. ibrahim shah martaba khan late muhammad alam pingal tehsil gupis district ghizer. petitioner appellant shah jahan muhammad yaqoob. zaba rao muhammad yaqoob. shah babar wali abad pingal tehsil gupis district ghizer. collector district ghizer. (respondents) leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance order, by ranting this leaveto appeal, this petition may be converted into appeal and may be graciously accepted, by setting aside impugned judgment .. divisional bench chief court and the impugned judgment .. and .. district court diamer at chilas camp gilgit and civil court gilgit respectively and objection petition of the petitioner objectors may kinldy be accepted to meet the ends of justice. present: muhammad hussain shahzad advocate on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: --. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge this leave to ap peal has been filed by the petitioner calling page in question the impugned .., the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan in civil revision no. the brief history of the case is that in the year the present petitio ners filed a suit bearing no. -a gupis before the learned civil (shah jahan muhammad yaqoob) had purchased half of the land of on molvi muhammad zameen at the sum of rs. (rupees twelve thousand ). the said land was allotted to molvi muhammad zameen by the then revenue authorities. later on in the year the remaining part of the land was also purchased by the present res pondent no. from its owner i.e. molvi muhammad zameen again at the cost of rs. but the present petitioner were claiming that the said land is khalisa -e-sarkar. it was neither the land of molvi muhammad zameen nor belonging to the present responde nts. upon hearing the learned civil whereafter, the series of litigations emergent between the present petitioner and respondents. the .. of the learned civil was upheld by the learned district -baltistan, hence this leave to appeal before this court against the three concurrent findings of the courts below. we at the preliminary hearing issued notices to the page respondent in the interest of the learned counsel for the petitioner contended that on .. the petitioner filed a application before the assistant collector tehsildar gupis district ghizer for restraining the respondent as they were interfering in the land of the petitioners. the learned assistant commissioner upon hearing both the parties dismissed the application of the petitioner and the declared the disputed land as khalisa -e-sarkar and ordered both the parties for not improving occupy the sa id land vide his .. the petitioner feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the above .. of the learned assistant collector tehsildar challenged the said order before the district collector ghizer but the appeal of the petitioner was got the same fate and the decision of the assistant collector tehsildar was upheld vide .. however the parties were directed to file application to claim title under nautore rules. feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the .. the learned collector district ghizer filed civil revision no. and the present respondent filed a civil suit on .. in the court of learned civil wherein, the present respondent did not impleaded the present petitioner malafidely and intentionally and the respondent got partial relief without impleading the present page petitioner as necessary party in the said suit against the law and procedure. the respondent in the garb of ex -partee decree tried to overtake the land of the petitioners. thereafter, the petitioner filed objection petition under order rule cpc read with section cpc against the respondent no. to while the district collector was also impleaded as respondent. the learned civil .., after framing issued and hearing the respective parties dismissed the suit of the petitioner ignoring the issue no. hence, the same was liable to be set aside. the present petitioner challenged the impugned order of the learned civil the learned district ... the present petitioner feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the .. fil ed civil revision no. before the learned chief court gilgit baltistan. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan vide .. again dismissed the appeal of the petitioner objectors while maintaining both the impugned judgments of the court below. the learned counsel for the petitioner contended that concurrent findings of all the three courts below are the result of misreading and none -appreciation of the material evidence on record hence not tenable in law. page on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent contended that the learned courts below vide their judgments dated i.e. .. the learned civil .., the learned district .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan are in accordance with law based on facts and evidence. the petitioner have not produced any iota of evidence in favour of their claim and they themselves admit ted that the disput ed land is khalisa -e-sarkar and even they did not challenge the order of the assistant commissioner before the higher forum i.e. the district collector of the respective district and after passing judgment by the learned civil they have no evidence regarding title of the said land with them and filed application on the ba sis of hearsay which has no evidential value in the eyes of law and justice, ence, their leave to appeal has requires to be dismissed being meritless and baseless. the learned courts below have rightly and correctly dismissed their case. the learned counsel for the petitioner did not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned .. as well as the .. the learned district ... page he finally contended that he judgments passed all the three courts below are well reasoned and well founded based on the facts and evidence and no interference is warranted. he also submits that he provisions of order rule is ot applicable in the ase in hand at all as the petitioner are not stakeholders of the disputed property as the property in question is either khalisa e-sarkar or it the land of the respondent which has been proved by adducing evidence on record. we have heard the learned counsel for both respective parties, perused the record of the case file and gone through the judgments of the three court below. in our considered view illegality and infirmity has been pointed out by the learn ed counsel for the petitioners. the petition is converted into an appeal and the same is dismissed. the impugned judgment the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan on .., as well as the judgments both the learned court below i.e. .., by the learned district .. are maintained. these are the reason for the short ... the appeal is dismissed. chief judge. judge.