page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan, gilgit. chief judge. judge. civil appeal. no. in cpla. no. muhammad yasin another petitioners. vc kiu others respondents. present:- munir ahmed advocate and on-record for the petitioners. akhlaq hussain advocate on behalf of respondent no. and date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court wherein the said writ petition of the present petitioner was dismissed on merit, hence, this leave to appeal. briefly facts of the case are that the petitioner were appointed on contract basis in the department of modern page languages by the karakoram international university (kiu) gilgit- baltistan after fulfilling the codal formalities i.e. test interview keeping in view the distinction of the petitioners. the petitioner rendered their services as lecturers bps- from to on contract basis. in the year the respondent advertised two regular posts of lecturers. the petitioner filed the advertisement dated .. to the learned vice chancellor, kiu, gilgit-baltistan praying therein to regularize the petitioner against the said advertised posts. the said appeal was dismissed by the university management and the respondent have been appointed instead of absorbing the petitioners. later on two more posts of lecturers of the said faculty were also advertised and four individuals, who qualified after test and interview have been appointed who according to the petitioner were not competent to be recruited against the posts of lecturers bps-. the petitioner being aggrieved filed writ petition before the learned chief court which upon hearing was dismissed, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case was finally heard on ... consequently, the petition of the petitioner was converted into an appeal and the same was dismissed vide our said short order by maintaining the impugned judgment of the learned chief court. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner were appointed as lecturers bps- on contract basis keeping in view their outstanding academic background and page teaching experience. they have rendered their services w.e.f to the entire satisfaction of competent authorities. he also submits that the appointment of the petitioner was made after fulfilling the requisite criteria i.e. after conducting test interview. he submits that later on their appointment was withdrawn without any reasons and the university administration appointed other candidates who were not even fulfilling the criteria fixed for such appointments. one of the candidate i.e. respondent no. does not fulfill the requisite cgpa whereas respondent no. was just having degree of m.a (english) and they had been appointed on the policy of pick choose. he further submits that the case of the petitioner is of identical one with the petitioner in case of shahid malik kiu, qamar abbas etc vc kiu, syed mazhar ali shah vc kiu, kaneez fatima vc kiu and iftikhar hussain vc kiu whose appeals have been accepted by this subsequently, their services have be en regularized. he adds that the respondent regularized zaidullah lecturer computer sciences who have not been recommended by the selection board. the petitioner were discriminated and not treate equally amongst equals. per learned counsel for the petitioner the case of the petitioner falls under para- of the .. this he finally submits that the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is the result of misconception of law and misreading non-reading of the facts of the case, hence, the same is not tenable. on the other hand, the learned counsels for the respondent support the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. they contend that the petitioner were appointed on contract basis for a specific period and upon expiry of the said period their services were terminated by the university authorities as per policy and recruitment rules. they also contend that the services of the candidates can only be regularized after going through the test interview and subsequent recommendation by the selection board. they further contend that the petitioner appeared in the test interview conducted by the selection board held on .. and .. but they failed to qualify the interview. per learned counsels for the respondent the petitioner neither appeared in the selection board nor they qualified the test interview. they add that the kiu is an autonomous institution and bound to act upon the university order, as envisaged by the federal universities ordinance, (cxx of ). according to the said ordinance all the permanent appointments from bps- and above are to be made with the recommendation of the selection board. they finally contend that the learned chief court has rightly page dismissed the writ petition so filed by the petitioner vide impugned .., hence, the same is to be maintained being delivered in accordance with law and facts of the case. they prayed that the said impugned judgment may very graciously be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court gilgit-baltistan. admittedly, the petitioner appeared before the selection board of the university which is the only forum to regularize the services of the candidates as per settled rules of the university. unfortunately the petitioner could not qualify, consequently the selection board did not recommend them for regular appointment. we have also been fortified from the judgment of the according to the said judgment no petition can be filed entertained without impleading the federal government and fulfilling the mandatory provisions as enumerated in article of the constitution of islamic republic of pakistan. furthermore, the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality irregularity in the impugned judgment the learned chief court. in our considered view the impugned judgment is well reasoned and no interference is warranted into it. page in view of the above discussions, we converted this petition into an appeal and the same was dismissed vide our short .. by maintaining the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. these were the reasons for the said short order. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?