page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. c. appeal no. in cpla. no. muhammad younus son of ghulam ali palpaldu tehsil kharmang district skardu. petitioner. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. secretary health gilgit -baltistan. director health baltistan region. district health officer skardu. assistant district health officer skardu. hussain shahid son of raza palpaldu tehsil kharmang district skardu. accountant agpr district skardu. accountant general gilgit -baltistan. respondents. present: rehmat ali advocate -on-record for the petitioner. the advocate general on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: -... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed against the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby the writ petition of the petitioner was dismissed vide impugned .. declaring the same incompetent. the petitioner page being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case was heard on ... the brief facts of the case are that the petitioner was appointed as chowkidar bps on contingent basis at a fixed pay of rs. per onth on ... consequently, the petitioner was performing his duties against the said post with the respondent no. the respondent no. converted the contingent service of the petitioner into contract service on .. for a period of one ye ar. the petitioner periodically requested to convert his services into permanent footing in line with the other contingent contract employees of health department gilgit -baltistan but the same request was refused by the respondents. the petitioner being ag grieved filed writ petition no. which was refused in limine vide impugned ... the petitioner again being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner was performing his duties to the best satisfaction of the competent authorities. he further submits that the contingent service of the petitioner was converted into contract but the respondent malafidely and discriminately refused to convert the services of the petitioner into permanent footing as done with other employees of the various departments of page gilgit -baltistan. he further submits that the petitioner was entitled to be adjusted on permanent basis in line with notification no. f. -admin dated .. but the respondent denied to convert his service into permanent footing which is contrary to the service rules. he further submits that the respondent are competent to transfer convert the services of the contingent contract emplo yees from bps to in consonance with the rule of business schedule iv column iii but they refused to do so which is an act of discrimination. he also submits that the respondent no. has wrongly been appointed against the said post of chowkidar on he basis of providing land for the constriction of dispensary which is illegal in law. the respondent no. has already received compensation against the said land. he also submits that the respondent no. filed a civil suit against the respondent witho ut making the petitioner as necessary party and the petitioner filed an application under order rule () cpc which was turndown by the learned civil the petitioner being aggrieved filed writ petition no. which was dismissed in limine by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court vide impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. he finally submits that the impugned .. the learned page gilgit -baltistan chief court is the result of misconception of law and misreading non -reading of the facts of he case, hence, the same is require to be set aside to meet the ends of justice. on the other hand, the learned advoc ate general alongwith supports the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. they contend that the petitioner has wrongly filed the said writ petition which was rightly been dismissed by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in limine being not competent. they further contend that since alternate remedy to the petitioner was available, the writ petition does not lie in such case. the impugned order is well reasoned and well founded and the same is required to be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, peru sed the record of the case file and go ne through the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. admittedly, the petitioner had no locus standi to file writ petition in the circumstances. a civil suit was filed by the petit ioner against the subject matter which was decided by the court of competent jurisdiction and the same was upheld by the learned first appellate court. since no revision was page filed by the petitioner, the judgment of the learned trial court holds field. in view of the above discussions, we converted this petition into an appeal and the same was dismissed vide our short ... consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court was maintained. these were the reasons for our short ... the petition is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?