page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. muhammad hanif son of abdul lateef of bunar dass tehsil chilas district diamer. petitioner. shah alam others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith deputy advocate general for the proforma respondent. johar ali khan advocate -on-record for respondent. date of hearing: ... date of detailed judgment: .. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in cr. appeal the learned chief court whereby the said cr. appeal filed by the respondent was accepted by setting aside the judgment ated .. the learned trial court and acquitted the respondent from the case. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case heard on ... page briefly, the facts of the case are that the appellant petitioner registered an fir no. under section pcc at police station city gilgit regarding missing of one abdul latif from the house of accused since .. on suspicion. after the registration of the case, the investigating officer (i.o) arrested the respondent and started usual investigation. on .., during the investigation, on the pointation of accused ali sher dead body of dec eased abdul atif was recovered. he stone which was used for the commission of the alleged crime was also recovered on the pointation of accused shah alam. after recovery of dead body and weapon of offence, the section ppc was converted into section ppc. after completion of the investigation, challan of the case against the respondent was submitted in the learned trial court. the charge against the respondent was filed under section ppc except accused ibadat khan who was discharged by the invest igating officer. the respondent accused pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial. the prosecution to prove its case against the accused examined as many as witnesses. after the closing of the prosecution evidence, the petitioner was examined under sect ion cr.pc. they neither opted to appear on oath nor produced any witness to defend as provided under section () cr.pc. the learned trial court after appraising the prosecution evidence and other material on record, hearing both the learned counsels for the respective parties and on proven guilty against the page respondent accused, convicted them under section (b) ppc vide ... the relevant portions of the said judgment are hereby reproduced as under: quote with the above observations, i am of the firm view that the prosecution case falls within the ambit of article qanu n-e- shahadat order, and corroborative evidence i.e. recoveries of dead body, weapon of offence and medical evidence has successfully proved the charge against the accused shah alam mazoob shah and ali sher sher ghazi bunardas district diamer. keeping in view the circumstantial evidence where accused were two persons and its not certain that which of the accused gave fatal injuries to the deceased and awarding life imprisonment has been held better by superior courts. the accused shah alam mazo ob shah and ali her sher ghazi bunardas district diamer presently residing at konodass gilgit have murdered committed qatl -i-amd of abdul latif therefore, convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for life under section (b) ppc and they are further sentenced to fine of rs. -(five hundred thousand only) each under section -a cr. pc and the said amount shall be paid to the legal heirs of deceased and in case of failure default of payment of the said amount they will undergo simple imprisonment for a perio of seven () years, to be computed after the convict accused completed life imprisonment. accused shall be entitled for the benefit of section -b cr. pc. as far as co -accused namely abdullah jan, naseer, abdul rasheed mazoob shah bunardas dis trict diamer presently residing at konodass gilgit are concerned no role has been assigned to them by the witnesses and no evidence is available on record to connect them with the alleged crime therefore, they are hereby acquitted from the charge leveled a gainst them. case disposed of accordingly. file after due completion be consigned to record. announced .. -sd- additional sessions judge, gilgit. unquote the respondent accused being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the judgment of the learned trial court filed criminal appeal no. in the learned chief court. the learned chief court upon hearing accepted the said criminal appeal by setting aside the ... the operative part of the page impugned judgment the learned chief court is hereby reproduced as under: quote in our opinion, the above described evidence is the only pro secution evidence, whereby prosecution has attempted but in vain to prove that prosecution recovered dead body of deceased of the case. so, we are of the opinion that the prosecution has badly failed to establish the recovery of any dead body, particularly, dead body of the deceased of the occurrence reported through fir no. the rest of the pieces of prosecution evidence could be taken up for discussion only if prosecution had succeeded to establish the recovery of dead body of deceased of the case. in our opinion, impugned judgment is very bad in the eye of law and prosecution has badly failed to connect the appellant convicts with the occurrence. we, therefore, set aside impugned order and acquit the appellant convicts from the case. we direct or immediate release of appellant from custody, if not required in any other case. this file be consigned to record. announced ... -sd- judge -sd- the state complainant feeling aggrieved with the impugned judgment of the learned chief court filed criminal petition in this court for setting aside the said impugned judgment. the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned advocate general submit that the deceased abdul latif was missing for almost days until his dead body was not found on the pointation of accused ali sher. they also submit that the said page recovery was made in presence of the magistrate, private witnesses and independent journalists. per learned counsels, the corroborative pieces of evidence i.e. unnatural death, postmortem report and blood stained cloths etc are strengthens the case of prosecution. they further submit that the dead body and crime weapons recovered on the pointation of the respondent and such recovery is admissible under article of the qanun -e-shahadat order, they reiterates that the involvement of accused shah alam is also established by the recovery of dead body, recovery of stone i.e. weapon of offence on his pointation in presence of the magistrate, private witnesses and independent journalists etc. the case is fit for the capital punishment, however, the learned trial court awarded life imprisonment to the accused instead of death sentence which was requi red to be maintained by the learned chief court. the learned trial court has already awarded lesser punishment by taking leniency in the case in question. the learned chief court fell in error in appraising the prosecution evidence and other material on re cord. the involvement of the respondent in the brutal murder of the deceased was proved by the prosecution beyond any reasonable doubt, consequently, the said impugned judgment is not tenable in law. they pray that the impugned judgment the lea rned chief court may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment. he contends that page the prosecution has to prove its case through direct tangible and inspiring confidence evidence. the circumstantial evidence cannot be admissible unless corroborated by an independent evidence. he reiterates for the conviction, the circumstantial evidence must be inter linked, inter woven and no gap should exist between the links of chain in commis sion of offence. per learned counsel, prosecution witnesses namely kashmir and tanzil (nazir) have been declared hostile. the prosecution has failed to dig out any material support in prosecution case during their cross examination. the circumstan tial evidence is not admissible unless corroborated by an independent evidence. he contends that the recovery has not been made on the pointation of respondent ali sher as the driver of the vehicle on which the police took the him for recovery of dead ody, has stopped the vehicle by his own. admittedly he driver was never asked by the respondent to stop the vehicle at that place. this fact got support by prosecution witness namely sawal khan. he further contends that there are glaring contradiction between the recovery witnesses of dead body and with the statement of the magistrate. he reiterates that the time of recovery of dead body was pm on .. whereas according to the postmortem report and statement of dr. wajahat hussain, the time of postmortem was am which shows that the postmortem has been conducted prior to the recovery of dead body. similarly, the time between the death and postmortem has been mentioned as more than days and this fact does not corroborate the story of page the prosecution. he contends that no witness has been associated from the locality i.e. from the house of respondent. the mode of transportation of dead body has not also been mentioned anywhe re in the record. further, the prosecution witness has denied that police has not recorded his statement under section cr. pc. he adds that accused abdullah jan, naseer, abdul rasheed mazoob shah were discharged by the investigating officer namely akbar hussain. the respondent were again arrested by the othe investigating officer despite the fact that no ioat of evidence against the said accused was available on record. the ocular evidence is no corroborated by medical evidence on record. he prays that the impugned judgment may pleased be maintained in circu mstances. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment as well as the judgment the learned trial court. the perusal of the statement of prosecution witness reveals that police did not rec over the dead body of the deceased in presence of the prosecution witnesses. the said prosecution witness deposed in his statement that he perso nally did not see the dead body recovered by he police. the police have shown a bag to the prosecution witnesses claiming that the dead body of the deceased is in the said bag. neither the dead body was identified by the prosecution witnesses nor the legal heirs of the deceased. the recovery of the dead body of the deceased on pointation of the respondent is doubtful. there are material page contradiction in the statements of prosecution witnesses. admittedly the ocular testimony is not corroborated by medical evidence. the prosecution has miserably failed to prove i ts case against the respondent beyond reasonable doubts. the learned counsels for the petitioner complainant also could not appoint out any infirmity or illegality in the impugned judgment. in our considered view, that impugned judgment is well reasoned and well founded. no interference into it is warranted by this cou rt. in view of the above discussions, we dismiss ed this appeal vide our short ... consequently, the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned chief court was affirmed. these were the reasons of our said short order. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.