page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at gilgit rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. -ud-din, judge. c.p.l.a. no. muhammad taqi habib muzahir majini mohallah gilgit. petitioner appellant defendant muhammad ali khan ghulam murtaza majini muhallah, tehsil district gilgit. respondent plaintiff provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. chief engineer pwd gilgit -baltistan. executive engineer division pwd gilgit. collector gilgit. chairman municipal committee gilgit. respondent defendant leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan(empowerment self governance) order chief court gilgit -balti stan in civil revision whereby the learned chief court has dismissed the revision petition holding that petitioner has filed to show any irregularatory in the impugned order the learned additoinal district for setting aside the impugned judgemnt of learned chief court and that of subordina te courts holding the same as devoid of any legal sanction of law and facts by admitting this leave to appeal into appeal and accepting the appeal for the ends of justice, law and equity. present: malik shafqat wali, senior advocate for the petitioner. adv ocate for respondent no.. page advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the respondent no. to date of hearing: --. judgment raja jalal -ud-din, j..... initially the pla intiff respondent muhammad ali han filed a civil suit for declaration and consequential relief to the effect that marlas of land under khasara no. be returned to him by defendant no. secondly that the utilized marlas of the acquired land was being encroached upon by mu hammad taqi petitioner defendant and his eviction. uring the pendency of civil suit the plaintiff respondent no. was restored with the marlas of acquired piece of land by the respondent no. after fulfilling the legal formalities required. in the conclusion the suit was decreed as prayed for. the petitioner defendant muhammad taqi preferred order of the civil who vide its finding dated dismissed the same as being meritless. again a revision petition was preferred against the concurrent findings of the two lower courts in the chief court gilgit -baltistan, who vide its findings dated dismissed the same as being without any substance. the petitioner has challenged the findings of the chief court gilgit -baltistan as being devoid of any merit alongwith the concurrent findings of the two lower courts. at the outset counsel for the petitioner pleads that the return of the marlas of utilized land to respondent no. by the respondent no. is illegal and the same could not be done page so. the petitioner is agitated by the letter no. rc -() -, dated by the section officer law. it is pleaded that said section officer law had no locus standii to order the return of the same. in the light of the argument advanced, we have gone through the letter in question alongwith the exhibits placed on file alongwith rule of punjab land acquisition rules we are convinced that the procedure adopted for the unutilized land and its return ave properly been followed and the courts have rightly come to the corre ct conclusion in their findings. there is no infirmity found. the petitioner defendant muhammad taqi has got no locus standii to contest the matter as he is nobody to prefer a civil suit. he has gone into a wild goose chase for an issue which is no concern of his. the letter no. rc -() -, dated by the section officer law is also closely perused and we found no substance for interference as it does not suffer from any irregula rity. in the light of above observations petition is converted into appeal and dismissed. announced: chief