page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in under objection no. muhammad shahid others petitioner s. vc kiu others respondent s. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner s. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil appeal has been directed against the impugned judgment .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the said writ petition filed the petitioner was dismissed being meritless. he petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case is heard today. briefly the facts of the case are that the petitioner were appointed as lecturer bps on various dates under kiu purely on contract basis later on, their services were regularized in pursuance of this court judgments dated .., .. and .. this court. they are still performing their page duties on regular basis, however, hey preferred writ petition no. in the learned chief court with the prayer that their services may be regularized from the date of initial appointment in line with the judgment dated .., .. and .. this court in various appeals so filed by their colleagues as the authorities of karakoram international university (kiu) are not ready to regularized their services on the ground of equal treatment. per averments of the respondent since the services of the petitioner have been regularized, therefore, their services can not be regularized from the date of initial appointment. upon hearing the said writ petition was ismissed being meritless, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner are serving as lecturers in various disciplines under karakoram international university (kiu). he further submits that the petitioner alongwith other lecturers who were performing their duties in the kiu gilgit -baltistan filed departmental appeals to regularize their services but the same were refused by the competent authorities. he also submits that the petitioner being aggrieved filed writ petition no. before the learned chief court which upon hearing was dismissed vide impugned ... per learned counsel the petitioner being aggrieved filed leave to appeal before this court which upon hearing was accepted vide .., wherein the respondent were directed that the contractual services of the page candidates already serving in the kiu be regularized against the posts held by the petitioners. he further submits that whereaf ter there review petitions have been filed before this apex court which upon hearing were accepted vide consolidated .. and the respondent were again directed to place the petitioner before the selection board for final selection. per learned counsel the respondent did not comply with the directives of the .. and the consolidated review .. this court. he submits that the respondent in compliance of the aforementioned judgment of this apex court regularized the services of some petitioner incumbents from their initial date of appointment while the services of other petitioner were regularized from the date of first writ petition and remaining incumbents have been regularized from the date of meeting of the selection board whereas the services of the present petitioner have yet not been regularized and they have been kept on contract basis. he submits that the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed writ pe tition no. before the learned chief court which upon hearing was dismissed vide impugned .., hence, the same is not sustainable. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. he contends that initially the petitioner and so many candidates were page appointed as lecturers on contract basis but later on for regularization of the posts under contract occupied by the petitioner and other candidates. he also contends that the university advertised the posts in newspaper and consequent upon the advertisement the petitioner and other suitable candidates who were working on contract basis applied for the posts and ater on joined the process of test interview conducted by behria university but unfortunately the petitioner did not qualify the test interview. per learned counsel the candidates who passed the test were invited to appear before the selection board of th university for interview whereas the petitioner who were failed in the written test were not called for the interview. he reiterates that the petitioner who and other candidates who were failed in the written test were disqualified to be appeared befor the selection board of the university. the petitioner being aggrieved filed writ petition in the learned chief court which were dismissed. consequently, the petitioner preferred leave to appeal in this court which upon hearing were decided vide .. in cpla no. the petitioner again filed review petitions which were also decided through common .. by this court wherein modes and method for regularization of the services of the petitioner were made. per learned counsel vide the said judgment this court categorized the candidates into three categories i.e. a and c". accordingly, the candidates falling in category a were exempted from appearing page before the selection board for intervi ew whereas the candidates falling in category and c" are directed to appear before the registrar of the university and the registrar was directed to place their case before the selection board for final selection. he contends that in compliance of the directives of this court the case of the petitioner was placed before the selection board resultantly, they appeared but the said selection board did not recommend them for final selection on regular basis keeping in view their poor performance. he contends that, however, the petitioner were kept on contract basis purely on humanitarian ground. per learned counsel after joining their contract services the petitioner again filed a misc. petition no. in this apex court wi th the prayer that the .. of the apex court may be implemented directing their contractual appointments be regularized. this court by accepting the petition directed the authorities of the university to regularize the contractual ser vices of the petitioner and accordingly the university authorities have regularized the services of the petitioner according to the spirit of the judgment of this ape court. he contends that there was no directive contained in the judgment for regularizi ng the services of the petitioner from the date of their initial appointment. he prays the impugned judgment .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court may graciously be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone page through the impugned judgment .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. in our considered view, the impugned judgment .. in writ petiti on no. the learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded and no interference is warranted into it. the services of the petitioner have already been regularized by the respondent and they have been enjoying their services since ast many years. in view of the above discussions, we dismiss this appeal. consequent thereto, the impugned judgment .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?