page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit (appellate jurisdiction) cpla no. chief judge. judge. multipurpos co-operative society, jagir basin, gilgit throu gh its presidents: muhammad sabir son of sultan ibrahim. ayub jehangir son of painda muhammad residents of jagir basin, gilgit. petitioner karakuram co -operative bank limited, through its general manager, head office, babar ro ad, jutial, gilgit. respondent civil eave to appeal under article of the gi lgit-baltistan (empowerment and sel governance) order, against the jud gment dated .. the chief court gilgit -baltist an in writ petition no. present: date of hearing:- .. order rana muhammad arshad khan, cj: this petition has been directed against the .. the learned division bench of the -baltistan, whereby, the writ petition bearing no. filed by the petitioner, against the .., the learned -baltistan, was dismissed in limine. page shorn of unnecessary facts, the karrakuram cooperative bank limited though its general manager, gilgit instituted a suit on .. in the court of civil ,, (rupees five lac, twenty three thousands, seve hundreds and nine only) outstanding against the multi purposes cooperative society, jagir basin, gilgit though its representatives i.e. petitioner no. and the suit later on was transferred to the court of special gilgit -baltistan, gilgit for its hearing and adjudication. the learned special ... the petitioner feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied, called in question the .. the learned special judge, through writ petition bearing no. in the chief court gilgit -baltistan which came up for hearing before the learned division bench of the the learned division bench of the .. dismissed the afore -referred writ petition. the learned couns el for the petitioner has been eard at length. the perusal of the record clearly reveals that the petitioner had made an application to obtain the copy the impugned order on .. and copy was prepared on the same date i.e. .. and the same was received by the petitioner on .. the petitioners, thereafter, had gone in deep slumber and could not make any effort to file a petition agai nst the aforesaid page order. the petitioner on .. filed the instant petition before this court. in view of order xiii, rule of supreme appellate court rules, the petition was required to be filed within days excluding the necessary period onsumed in obtaining the copy. keeping in view all the se dates, the instant petition was file before this court with a delay of about days. the learned counsel for the petitioner when confronted with the situation, he could not explain anything with re gard to the filing of the petition with a delay of days. the learned counsel for the petitioner was asked as to whether he has filed any application for the condonation of delay, he replied very frankly that he did not file any application requesting th erein for condonation of delay. it is settled by now that if any aggrieved party does not file the case within the prescribed period by law, it creates a valuable legal right in favour of the other party which can not be taken away casually. the present etition is awfully time bared and meanwhile a valuable right has accrued to the other party. in view of what has been discussed above, the petition in hand is dismissed and the leave to appeal is refused. chief