page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. nasir iqbal petitioner. the state respondent. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general for the respondent state. date of hearing short order: ... date of detailed judgment: judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal petition has been directed against the consolidated impugned .. in cr. appeals no. cr. revision no. the learned chief court whereby the cr. appeal no. and filed by the petitioner were dismissed whereas the cr. appeal filed by the state complainant was accepted by enhancing the sentence of life imprisonment into death. the other sentences, however, awarded by the learned trial court are maintained. the petitioner being page aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said consolidated impugned judgment filed the above two cr. leave to appeals separately against the conviction under section (b) ppc and under section arm ordinance which have been heard together on .. and the same were decided through this common judgment vide short order. briefly, the facts of the case are that an fir no. under section ppc was lodged at police station, gilgit on the written application of complain ant rehmat azeem son of khawaja khan resident of gulaper district gilgit presently resident at konodass gilgit. as per contents of the said fir that on .. after offering juma payers at tabligi center konodass gilgit, the complainant when came out from tabligi markaz, he received information that his son namely anas was murdered while returning from read foundation school after appearing in examination at pm alongwith his friend namely asif akhtar jan residence of konodass. the complainant fur ther stated that they have no enmity with anyone. the accused namely nasir iqbal son of muhammad zaman immediately after the occurrence surrendered himself before the cid police gilgit alongwith weapon of offence i.e. a -bore pistol. the accused also tated before the police that he murdered as the deceased anas has illicit relation with his cousin mst. munira. the accused was brought to the police station city from cid where he was formally arrested and the weapon of offence was also recovered in presence of witnesses. page after registration of the said fir under section ppc at police station city gilgit, the sip namely shams -ur-rehman started investigation and per the available record. consequently, he prepared site plan of occurrence. he collected blood stained earth from the place of occurrence and prepared memo. he also took two empty shell into his custody from the crime scene and accordingly prepared memo in presence of the witnesses. whereafter he conducted the identification parade of the accused in presence of inayatullah magistrate 2nd class on .. and in presence of the witnesses. after completion of the investigation, the challan of the case was submitted on .. in the court of learned sessions the trial of the case commenced on ... he was directed to appoint his counsel but he could not engage his lawyer. he was again directed to appoint his defence counsel as he could not appoint his counsel on many dates of hearings which caused delay in framing the charge. meanwhile the accused submitted an application on .. contending therein that he is a minor. consequently he was referred to the medical superintendent d.h.q. gilgit for determination of his age. after necessary tests examination of the accused the medical board determined his age round about years. the charge was framed on .. against the accused treating him as juvenile offender. he pleaded not guilty and opted to contest the case. the prosecution to prove its case against the accused produced and page examined as many as eight () witnesses. after closing of prosecution evidence, the statement of the accused under section cr.p.c. was recorded on ... the arguments of both the parties were finally heard on .. by the trial court. after hearing the learned counsels for the respective parties, perusing the evidence material on record and on proving guilty, the accused was convicted and sentenced for life imprisonment with a fine of rs.,, -. he was also convicted for imprisonment of five years r.i with a fine of rs., under section arms ordinance. the benefits of section (b) cr.p.c. were extended to him in both cases vide ... the operative part of the said judgment is hereby reproduced as under: quote in the light of above discussion, i am of the firm opinion that the prosecution through ocular evidence, medical evidence, recovery of weapon of offence from the accused and other incriminating material has successfully brought home the charge against th accused namely nasir iqbal son of muhammad zaman. hence, the accused namely nasir iqbal son of muhammad zaman is convicted under section (b) ppc and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life. under section -a cr.p.c. the accused is also fined rs., (three lac or in default whereof to suffer one year si. the amount of fine if recovered shall be paid to the legal heirs of the deceased anas according to their personal law of inheritance. benefit of section (b) cr.p.c. is also extended in favour of the accused. the accused is also convicted under section of the pakistan arms ordinance xx of and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for five years with fine of rs., the sentences awarded to the accused shall run consecutively. page nevertheless, as far as quantum of sentence is concerned, there are two mitigating circumstances in this case. firstly, the accused is a young teenager boy. secondly, there is no criminal record against the accused and neither the above named accused convict is previous convict, therefore taking these circumstances into consideration esser punishment of life imprisonment has been awarded to the convict namely nasir iqbal son of muhammad zaman. judgment pronounced in open court in presence of parties and certified true copy of judgment supplied to the convict free of cost as required under section cr.p.c. with the advice that he may prefer an his conviction in the baltistan chief court gilgit. the recovered bore pistol is hereby confiscated in favour of the state. certified true copy of this judgment be pl aced on the s.c. no. registered under section pakistan arms ordinance xx of file after due completion be consigned to record. unquote the petitioner convict being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the above judgment of the learned trial court filed two separate criminal appeals i.e. cr. appeal no. under section (b) ppc and cr. appeal no. under section pakistan arms ordinance xx of in the learned chief court whereas the state complainant also filed cr. revision no. in the learned chief court for enhancement of the life imprisonment of the convict into capital punishment. the learned chief court upon hearing dismissed both the criminal appeals fil led by the petitioner convict whereas the cr. appeal filed by the state complainant was accepted by enhancing the sentence of life imprisonment into death awarded by the learned tria court gilgit, however, the other page sentences awarded by the learned trial court were maintained, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that there is no material evidence on record which connect the a ccused petitioner with the commission of the alleged offence. admittedly, there was no eye witness of the occurrence. pw- namely asif son of akhtar jan purportedly shown present at the place of occurrence who admittedly has not seen firing first shot upon deceased which succumbed him to death. he later on arrived and seen the petitioner holding pistol in his hand who fired second shot upon deceased and he immediately left the place of occurrence being frightened. per le arned counsel, the statement of the said pw is contradictory in nature on each and every material point. the said pw is the sole so called eye witness who in his statement in court has admitted that he remained in the custody of the police for days soon after the occurrence, hence, it is sufficient to believe that his evidence could not be relied upon. the statement of the said witness is liable to be discarded which has not been considered either by the learned trial court or by the learned 1st appellate court. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the story of the prosecution is false, fabricated and bogus which has been tailored and twisted by the prosecution just to make the convict as an escapegoat. the story of the prosecut ion i.e. the voluntary surrendering of the convict petitioner before the police is also false and artificial one as the fir no. registered under section page arms ordinance on .. whereas the memo for recovery of the weapon of offence was prepared on .. for which no explanation is available on record. he submits that the pw- ali ambar has stated that the convict petitioner brought by the cid police at a.m. at police station whereas the occurrence has been shown to have aken place at hours which is contradictory with the story of the prosecution. per learned counsel, there is no corroborative evidence on record which connects the convict petitioner in comm itting the murder of the deceased anas. the police have tailored the story in order to save the real culprits with the collusion of the complainant. the allegation of the murder of mst. munira maternal cousin of the petitioner by the petitioner is also false. the petitioner was charged of her murder but later-on he was exonerated. one mehfooz -ur- rehman was booked in the charges of her murder who was later -on released acquitted on the basis of compromise. he contends that the prosecution has failed to prove its case beyond shadow of doubts. the learned courts bellow have failed to apply their judicial mind by misreading and non -appreciating the prosecution evidence and other material on record. per learned counsel for the petitioner convict the learned chief court has not applied its judicial mind to the fact that the juvenile offender convict can not be sentenced to death under any law of the land and or any other law of any country of the world. the petitioner is entitled for the benefit of doubt and he be acq uitted for giving such benefit. while page saying so he relied upon the case laws reported as gblr mld mld pld peshawar pcr.lj note and plj quetta on the other hand the learned counsel for the complaina nt and the learned advocate general support the impugned judgment the learned chief court. they contend that the petitioner has committed the brutal murder of the deceased anas which was witnessed by pw- namely asif son of akhtar jan. the said pw directly charged the petitioner attributing him a specific role in commission of the offence. the motive of the murder is that the deceased has illicit relation with mst. munira, the cousin of the petitioner convict who has also been murdered by one mehfooz -ur-rehman which proves the motive behind the occurrence. per learned counsels, the petitioner convict has voluntarily surrendered himself before the police alongwith a bore pistol. the said weapon of offence was sent for ballistic opinion and the report receive was in positive. similarly empty shells were also recovered which matched with the said recovered weapon. the medical evidence corroborates the ocular testimony. the eye witness has identified the petitioner convict during the identification parade in presence of the magistrate and prosecution witness es. the prosecution has proved its case through credible, tangible and inspiring confidence evidence which have correctly been appreciated by both the courts below. per learned counsels, the petitioner convict was awarded lesser punishment by the trial page court which has rightly been enhanced by the learned chief court through its impugned judgment. they contend that the impugned judgment is well reasoned and well founded which may graciously be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties, perused the material on record, gone through the impugned judgment the learned chief court and the judgment of the learned trial court as well the case laws cited by the learned counsel for the petitioner. admittedly, there is no eye witness of the occurrence. pw-i rehmat azeem father of the deceased who registered the fir has not nominated any accused. admittedly, after re gistration of the fir, he again returned to city hospital gilgit and by that time post -mortem examination of the deceased anas was over. the sp fiu present in hospital informed the complainant and disclosed the name of the petitioner convict as nasir iqbal who has committed the murder of his son. admittedly he has not added nominated the name of the petitioner by giving his further statement to the police. he, however, in the cross examination has admitted that his application exh. pw -i a has not disclosed the name of the convict petitioner and the person who informed him about the murder of his son. he also admitted that the sp fiu has ritten the name of the accused the paper chit which received he from him. neither he recorded before the police his further statement that sp fiu has disclosed the name of the murderer nor he stated and produced the said paper chit in court. page although the petitioner convict also surrendered himself alongwith the weapon of offence before the police by admitting the commission of the murder of the deceased anas before registration of the fir in the said police station yet the name of the convict petitioner has not been mention ed nominated in the fir. the said complainant has also deposed that he reached police station around pm hours) and moved an application exh. pw a for registration of the fir. he also stated that the said application was written by his cousin whos name he does not remember whereas the fir was registered at hours on .. and the occurrence is shown at hours which creates serious doubts about the time of alleged occurrence and the presence of the eye -witness. pw-ii asif deposed that the occurrence took place at noon on .. but he has not seen the accused firing at the deceased. he narrates the story that the petitioner convict paid salam to us and inquired from anas about the paper whereafter we all three () moved ahead on domial road. after a while he received a call while attending the said call he went ahead from deceased anas and petitioner convict meanwhile he heard a fire shot. when he returned back he saw that his friend anas was lying in the ground and the present petitioner convict was sitting holding a pistol in his hand. after seeing him he opened another fire on my friend anas whereafter he got frightened and run away to wards ahle-sunnat masjid gilgit from where he went to city police station and by then the petitioner convict was already surrendered arrested. he page identified the petitioner in the police station. in his cross examination he admitted that he was detained in police station for one or two days for interrogation inquiry in the said case and he was not produced in any court of law. during his detention he admitted that he has not stated before the police regarding going to the jamia masjid soon after the occurrence as well as going towards the police station. he admitted that the identification memo does not contain his signature, date and the signature of other private witnesses of the identification proceeding. he also admitted that during the identification parade he was in police custod y. the credibility of the witnesses his presence at the crime scene seems doubtful. the perusal of the statements of both the witnesses i.e. the pw- the complainant and the pw -, the so called eye -witness are contradictory in nature. admittedly the sai witness remained in police custody for days and his neutrality as independent witness is questionable. similarly, there is no corroborative piece of evidence available on record which connects the petitioner with the commission of the alleged crime. the prosecution has to stand on its own legs and prove its case beyond reasonable doubts. the evidence brought on record of case should be unambiguous and inspiring confidence. no legal evidence is available on record to convict the petitioner. the courts of law are bound to administer however, strong that may be. the crime is to be proved through cogent, tangible and strong evidence which i this case prime facie page is lacking missing. the prosecution has failed to establish its case against the petitioner beyond reasonable doubts. the concept of benefit of doubt is deep rooted. for giving benefit of doubt is not necessary that there should be many circumstance creating doubts, if a slighte st doubt arises the benefit of such doubt must be given to the accused. in our considered view, the judgments of both the learned courts below are the result of misreading, non -reading and mis-appreciation of the prosecution evidence and material on record, hence, the conviction(s) awarded to the petitioner are not sustainable. in view of the above discussion, we converted both the petitions into appeals and the same were allowed vide our short ... consequently, the petitioner was a cquitted from all the charges by giving him the benefit of doubt. the conviction (s) and entence (s) awarded to him was were set -aside. consequent thereto, the common impugned .. in cr. appeals no. and cr. revision no. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan and the .. in session case no. learned sessions -aside. it was ordered that the petitioner namely nasir iqbal son of muhammad zaman resident of damote juglote, tehsil district gilgit be set at liberty forthwith, if he was not required in any other case. these were the reasons for our said short order. page the appeals are allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.