page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. national accountability bureau petitioner. sher ba ahmed son of hameedullah basin pain henzail tehsil district gilgit respondent. present: additional prosecutor general national accountability bureau rawalpindi alongwith special prosecutor nab gilgit and -on-record for the petitioner. malik shafqat wali senior advocate on behalf of the respondent. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal cancellation of bail has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition no. filed by the respondent was accepted by granting him bail, hence, this leave to appeal. briefly, the facts the case are that the respondent was arrested by the petitioner on .. in connection with an inquiry against the officers officials of excise taxation department gilgit -baltistan regarding the alleged illegal award of contracts of number plates, purchase of arms ammunitions and page irregular appointments etc. the respondent was convicted for years imprisonment under section -a of nab ordinance, by the learned national accountability court vide ... whereafter, the learn ed nab court issued perpetual non-bailable warrants of arrest against the respondent and he was accordingly arrested from islamabad on ... his transit remand was also taken from nab court islamabad on ... consequently, the respondent was pr oduced before nab court gilgit on ... the physical remands were granted periodically. the respondent being aggrieved filed writ petition before the learned chief court which was accepted vide impugned order. learned addi tional prosecutor nab rawalpindi submits that the respondent willfully, knowingly and with criminal intend received undue and illegal favour as front man of the main contractor which caused loss to the government exchequer. similarly, the respondent in con nivance with other accused received illegal benefits by violating the pepra rules, producing fake tender process forged documents etc. per learned additional prosecutor, the accused respondent committed the offence of corruption corrupt practice which is cognizable under section -a of nab ordinance, he submits that the respondent accused was summoned time and again but he willfully and knowingly remained fugitive from law and did not extend his cooperation during investigation. he submits that the learned chief page court fell in error while passing the impugned order which is not sustainable and liable to be set aside. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned order the learned chief court. he contends that the respondent is neither a government official nor he is involved in the case in hand rather he has a front man of the contractor. the said contractor is enjoying his liberty in lieu of the plea bargain affected with the nab authorities. per learned counsel, the respondent was convic ted for years under section -a of the nab ordinance, therefore, he should have been dealt as convict by allowing him judicial remand instead of physical remand by the learned trial court. he contend that the learned chief court has rightly allowed his bail application vide impugned order which is required to be maintained in circumstances. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned order the learned chief court. we are in agreement with the contentions of the learned counsel for the respondent that the respondent has been convicted for years under section -a of the nab ordinance, and he should have been dealt accordingly. in our considered view, the impugned 12.. the learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded and no indulgence is warranted into it. in case any material evidence against him, comes on record page regarding his involvement in commission of crime, the nab authorities may approach the learned chief court for cancellation of his bail in circumstances. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is ismissed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.