page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. appeal no. in cpla no. nbp through manager sost branch hunza -nagar petitioner. silk route dry port trust sost respondents. present: johar ali khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. basharat ali advocate for the respondents. date of hearing: ... date of detailed judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil first appeal filed the respondent was accepted by setting aside the judgment decree dated .. the learned banking court at gilgit. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the imp ugned judgment filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case was heard on ... briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent availed amounting to rs. million fro the petitioner bank as loan. the said loan was sanctioned on .. which was paid page to the respondent accordingly. the date for final adjustment re payment of the loan in question was .. but the respondent failed to repay the said amount including the markup as per policy of the bank in question within the stipulated time. consequently, the petitioner became constrained to file civil suit no. for recovery of rs. ,, in banking court gilgit -baltistan. notices were issue to the petitioner defendant but neither were they appeared before the learned banking court nor they filed leave to defend. the learned banking court upon hearing decreed the said suit vide as prayed vide ... the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said order filed civil first appeal no. in the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan which upon hearing was allowed vide impugned .. by setting aside the order (s) dated .., and orders dated .. and .. the learned trial court, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case was heard on ... the leaned co unsel for the petitioner contends that the judgment decree was the learned banking court against the respondent on .. for recovery of loan worth of rs. ,, (rupees five crore eighty five lac forty four thousand nine hundred and eighteen only) under the financial institution (recovery of finances) ordinance he also contends that before passing the said judgment decree, the respondent no. to page inspite of serving notices to them, they persistently remained absent from the courts throughout the proceedings. he further contends that .. who has been appearing in the previous proceedings posing himself as counsel for the respondent defendant no. to but no wakalat na ma was ever filed by him before the learned banking further more, no application for leave to defend was filed in the learned banking court by the respondent nos. to being the contesting defendants. he also contends that neither the learned baking court itself converted the judgment decree into an execution petition as provided under section of the financial institution (recovery of finances) ordinance nor the petitioner bank filed such application. he also submits that the learned banking court after decreeing the suit on .. was legally duty bond to convert it into an execution petition. the banking court, however, shifted the responsibility to the decree holder petitioner bank and a cost of rs. was imposed on the petitioner bank vide .. which was not tenable. he further contends that the learned banking court issued notices to judgment debtors and simultaneously warrants against them to execute the judgment decree for auc tioning properties of judgment debtors. the learned deputy commissioners gilgit, hunza and nagar were appointed as auction officers to conduct the auction proceedings thereto but all in vain. subsequently on non -appearance of the page respondent defendant and non-payment of the deecretal amount, the banking court issued non -bailable warrant of their arrests. the respondents, however, managed for not serving upon them such non -bailable warrant of their arrests as well as their counsels also remained successful in getting adjournments on one or another pretext. per learned counsel, the respondent no. mir. ghazanffar ali khan was elevated as governor, gilgit -baltistan and the banking court vide .. withheld the non bailable warrant of ar rests issued against him alongwith prince saleem khan and instead issued notices to them to pay deecretal amount. the learned counsel for the petitioner further contends that it is not understandable that the learned banking court under what provisions of law withheld the non bailable warrant of arrests issued against respondent no. prince saleem khan who does not enjoy said immunity. he submits that the decree passed on .. was not challenged by the respondent within days as provided in sub se ction () of section of the financial institution (recovery of finances) ordinance the the aforementioned impugned order was filed by the respondent on .. after the considerable delay of years months and days along with other orders passed in misc. applications dated .. .. respectively. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court upon hearing the respective parties was pleased to accept the appeal filed by the respondent page and decree dated .. an orders dated .. .. passed in misc. applications by the learned banking court were set aside with the directions to proceed with the suit under the law procedure. the learned counsel for the petitioner also submits that after ser ving notices upon the respondent by the learned banking court, the respondent have not filed application for leave to defend under section of the financial institution (recovery of finances) ordinance the learned banking court continued trial i nstead of decreeing the suit against the respondent which was mandatory in nature. he further submits that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has not applied its judicial mind to the fact that the appeal was hopelessly time barred and it was filed i violation of the provisions of section of the financial institution (recovery of finances) ordinance which is not sustainable. he also contends that the decree passed on .. by the learned banking court was well reasoned based on facts and law and no interference was warranted thereto. he prays that the impugned judgment may graciously be set aside by maintaining the .. the banking -baltistan to meet the ends of justice. on the other hand, the learned counsels for the respondent support the impugned judgment the learned chief court. they contend that the .. passed page by the learned banking court was an ex -parte decree as the respondent hav not been providing them opportunity to defend their case by filing leave to defend, hence, the said order was not tenable in law. per learned counsels, no date of hearing was fixed by the learned banking therefore, no limitation runs against such order in circumstances. the learned banking court failed to apply its judicial mind to the facts and law while dis posing the said ex -parte decree. they further conten that the said order has been passed against the mandatory provisions of article rule (),() and () of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, read with article of the constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan, according to which no criminal civil proceedings whatsoever shall be instituted or continued against the governor or the chairman of the council while he is in office. they contend that since the .. the learned banking -parte decree which was void, therefore, the same has rightly been set aside through the subsequent impugned judgment by the learned chief court. they pray that the impugned judgment may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the .. the learned banking court as well as the impu gned .. in cfa no. page the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, the case diaries of both the courts below, the referred provisions of the financial institution (recovery of finances) ordinance the perusal of the record transpires that sufficient opportunities were granted to the respondent by the learned banking and passing the .. but the respondent defendant persistently remained absent rom the court throughout the proceedings. similarly, the counsel for the respondent did not attend the proceedings after appearing in the previous date of hearing posing himself as advocate for the defendant but he did not turn up again. the suit was adm ittedly filed in the year but the same was lingering on up to on account of the absence of the respondents. the learned trial court could not put itself at the mercy of the respondents, hence, he was no option but to proceed with the suit in acco rdance with law as the financial institution (recovery of finances) ordinance demands speedy trial of the suit filed under its provisions. in our considered view, the .. the learned banking .. passed in cfa no. by the learned chief court. the said impugned judgment is not tenable in law being passed contrary to the law and facts of the case. page the learn ed gilgit -baltistan chief court has rightly observed that (respondent no. should have not been impleaded after his elevation as governor, gilgit -baltistan as provided in article of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, after observation of the learned chief court, the petitioner bank while filing this petition should have refrained in impleading, governor, gilgit -baltistan as respondent no. and his matter should ave been deferred. we while granting leave to appeal directed to delete the name of his excellency governor, gilgit -baltistan from the names of the respondents. in view of the above discussions, we allowed this appeal. consequent thereto, the impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court was set aside and .. in civil suit no. the learned banking court was upheld. the appea is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.