page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan c.p.l.a. no. chief judge. judge. .niamat khan through his legal representatives (i) abdul majeed khan (ii) ahmed khan, his sons.. muhammad afzal khan.. muhammad shafi, sons of inayat khan.. hassan shah.. fida ali.. muhammad ayoub sons of muhammad shah.. dadu khan son of mujawar.. sultanullah baig son of hasil khan.. qurban shah son of dadu.. ali jauhar son of bahadur.. sangi khan through his legal repres entative mehboob ali.. sakhi a hmed jan.. bulbul jan sons of kabul hayat wafi ahmed son of ahmad ali.. mst bibi nani widow of kabul hayat adil son of baz gul jamil throu gh his legal representative behram shah, his son laiman through his legal representative behram shah his sons... baran shah through his legal representative jan a lam, his son.. mehboob son of lalim.. ali sifat through his legal representative abdulllah shah his son.. ghulam murtaza through his legal representative..amani through his legal representative (i) fidaullah (ii) sherullah baig, his sons.. farmano through his legal representative shah behram his son residents of mauza hassanab ad, tehsil aliabad, hunza district hunza nagar. petitioner secretary kashmir affairs and northern areas affairs islamab ad. chief secr etary revenue commissioner, gilgit baltistan. collector deputy commissioner, gilgit chief engineer, napwd gilgit. executive engineer napwd (b r) division hunza nagar. respondent application for grant of leave to appeal under article () of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governeance) order, against the -- gilgit -baltistan chief court in c.f.a. whereby the civil first appeal of district court executing court, gilgit, holding that gilgit -baltistan chief court had catagorically awarded interest to the appellant purported by section of the act and no interest under section of the land acquisition act has been grant ed. present:- sr. advocate for the petitioners. advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the respondents. date of earing:- --. j..... this leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned order --, the learned division bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan, whereby the learned chief court dismissed the civil first appeal and page up-held the findings of executing ourt dated --, hence this petition. this apex court admitted c.p.l.a no. for regular hearing on --. we therefore deem it proper to reproduce the contents of the short --, for clarification. contends that there is no ambiguity i the original order on the basis of which decree has been the referee court which has been maintained by the chief court with some modification and that in executing proceedings, the executing court as well as chief court by misinterpreting the original order declined to grant the interest to the petitioner under section of the land acquisition act with observation that it was not as such part of the decree. the contention raised requires consideration and leave is accordingly granted wi th direction that main appeal shall be heard on the present record immediately after summer vacation. the parties may, if so require, place additional document on record. the brief facts formin back ground of this petition a re that the land of petitioner was acqui red for the construction of hyd le project mp vide award no. dk- hunzah dated --. not content with the compensation amount, the petitioner approach ed the collector for referring the matter to court under section of the la nd acquisition act (act i of hereinafter called the ac t, which was accordingly processed. the claim of petitioner was resisted by respondent on variety of grounds through their written -statement. the divergent pleadings of the parties give birth as many as (ii) issues. after receiving respective page evidence of the partie the learned ref eree --. the respondent preferred an appeal before the chief court gilgit-baltistan and the learned chief court passed a decree on --, modify ing the decree of the learned refere court dated --. that the petitioner had filed an application on --, for the execution of decree of the learned referee court and the chief court, gilgit -baltistan. the learned district as executing court, held that the respondent have paid the decr eetal amount with profit in the light of section of the land execution act the executi ng court further directed the respondent judgment -debtors to deposit the amount rs. ,, one lac sixteen thousand and fifty seven only) in the court without fail, the above direction on behalf of executing court, is without calculation of any inte rest under section of the land acquisition act we have heard the argument advances by the learned counsel for the parties at length and also perused the relevant record as well as the impugned orders judgment of the lower courts with full care and caution. the learned counsel for the petitioner vehemently argued and submits that the order of the executing court below as well as the impugned judgme nt is not a speaking order and the same was based on conj ectures and surmise and not on law. the provision of law as contain ed under section and of land acquisition act were mis-interpreted by the lower courts below, as such the findings of both the learned lower court are liable to be set aside. he further strongly pr essed that the learned executing court below has not calculated the interest according to page law on the amount of compensation. moreover, the learned executing court has wrongly relied upon a calculation statement submitted by the respondents. the calculation showing by the respondent is based on arbitrary amount which can not be accepted to the petitioner by any means. learned counsel for the petitioner maintained that after once the compensation is increased by the court, the petitioner are entitled as a matter of righ to the grant of compound interest at the rate of under section of the land acquisition act, which could not have been disallowed by the learned lower courts. he further pointed out that both the learned lower courts are failed to exercise their jur isdiction in accordance with law, thus their findings are without jurisdiction and contr ary to law and facts, as such not tenable. the learned counsel for the petitioner concluded with the last submission that the orders the learned lower courts may kindly be set aside to meet the ends of justice. on the other ha nd the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan strongly opposed the argument advance by the learned counsel for the petitioner and submit that the learned chief court, gilgit -balti stan had appointed a commission with consent of the parties for determination of proper rates of compensation. in the light of report of commissioner, the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan passed decree in favour of petitioner on --. the learned chief court has already extended the benefit of section land acquisition act, as such both the learned lower courts rightly refused to maintain the contention of petitioners. he further argued that the petitioner did not press thi claim as the petit ioners have been adequately compensated in as much as the price of the compensation for th land has been awarded to them, they have also been awarded page sufficient compensation regarding the trees. therefore, the objection raised by the counsel for petitione has no force at all, as such, it can not be considered in favour of petitioners. he further strongly pressed, that under section of the land acquisition act, the ground of compound interest is within the discretion of the court an no person or party can claim i as a matter of right. on this point the provision of section are sufficiently clear, as such the learned lower courts below have rightly refused to entertain the application dated --, for the interest of compound interest on the access amount. we have minutely scrutinize the relevant record as well as the orders judgments the learned lower courts, with the able assistance of both the counsels for the parties. we have already stated in some detail the material fact of his case pertaining to the quantum of compensation as ass essed by the la nd acquisition collector and then as assessed by the referee court. we have also examine the memo of application submitted by the counsel for the petitioners, wherein it has been found that the amount assess ed by learned acquisition collector with compulsory charges as also interest in terms of section of land acquisition act is not in dispute. now notwithstanding placement of the two sections i.e. and in the scheme of land acquisition act, section become invoke able at a point of time earlier then the one at which section is attracted. section mandates the and acquisition collector to pay interest at the rate of compound on such amount of compensa tion which has not been paid or deposited on or before taking possession of the land. this interest is payable from the date of taking of possession till the deposit of the amount. so far as matter governed by section of the said act, is page concerned ther is no dispute, at least one is not apparent on the face of record. dispute has aris en calculation of the interest payable to the petitioner under section of the land acquisition act we deem it proper to reproduce the said secti on here, as am ended:- if the um which, in the opinion of the court, the collector ought to have awarded as compensation is in excess of the sum which the collector did award as compensation, the award of the court may direct that the collector shall pay interest on such excess at the rate of from the date on which he took possession of the land to the date of payment of such excess into the court it will be seen that section would come into play at a point of time when the referee court had made its award upon the matter being referred to it by the and acquisition collector under section of the land acquisition act, further the interest would be payable only in case the court comes to the conclusion that the compensation payable to the land owners are in excess of the amount of compensation awarded to him by the land acquisition collector. once the court comes to thi conclusion, the ollector upon direction of the court has to pay the compound interest on the excess amount at the rat of upon plain reading of the said provision of law, the compound interest payable there under is to be paid on the excess amount and this excess refers to the difference between the amount determine by the court and the amount assessed by the colle ctor provide the amount determine by the court is in excess of the amount assessed by the land acquisition collector. further this interest is to be paid retrospectively with effect from the date mention ed in the judgment referee court dated -- and till such time that the excess amount is deposited in the ourt. in the light of what has been stated above it can be concluded safely, that the impugned order dated -- the learne division bench of chief court gilgit -balti stan and rder dated -- of the executing court below is hereby set aside with the direction that the page petitioner are enti tled for the compound interest u nder sections of the land acquisition act, further the excess amount in the shape of interest is to be paid retrospectively with effect from the --. the executing court is further directed to calculate the interest on the excess amount of compensation and satisfied the decree according to law and equity. this appeal in the above terms is allowed with no orders as to costs. sd xxxx chief -xxxx judge