page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. nigar ahmed others petitioner s. mst. shazia kanwal respondent. present: date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the said writ petition filed by the respondent was accepted by directing the petitioner to e-instate the respondent on her service as district coordinator (gilgit) social mobilization national cash transfer program of benazir income support program (bisp) on the basis of her initial appointment and confirmation letter dated .. with effec from .. to .. with all back benefits. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard today. page briefly the facts of the case are that the respondent was appointed as district coordinator gilgit under aurat foundation waseela taleem (bisp) at a gross salary of rs. (rupees fifty thousand only) per month for a period of two () years wit effect from .. vide appointment order no. ho hr later on her services were terminated on .. vide order no. af ho hrd mi issued by the respondents. the respondent being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed writ petition no. before the learned chief court which was allowed as prayed for. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that aurat foundation is a none -governmental organization and the respondent was appointed as district coordinator purely on contract basis for a period of two years but her services were terminated on account of abolishment of the impugned post. he also submits that the respondent had no locus standi to file the writ petition being the employee of a non -governmental organization similarly the learned chief court has no jurisdiction to entertain such writ petition. per learned counsel the impugned .. the learned chief court in writ petition no. is without jurisdiction, illegal and incompeten as no writ petition lies against the non -statutory bodies ngos. he further submits that the case of the respondent falls under master and servant rules. he submits that the extra -ordinary writ jurisdiction can only be invoked against the statutory bodi es and government page institutions in case of any denial with regard to the fundamental rights of the citizens. he prays that the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court may graciously be set aside in circumstances. on the other hand, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. he contends that although the aurat foundation is an ngo but it is sponsored by the government with the collaboration of benazir income support program (bisp). per learned counsel writ lies in this case and the question of maintainability was raised by the petitioner in the learned chief court which as also resolved by the learned chief court. he prays that the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. admittedly, the aurat foundation is a non -governmental organization (ngo) and it is sett led principle of law that writ jurisdiction can not be invoked against any private organization. the case of the respondent falls under the principle of master and servant rules. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an app eal and the same is allowed. consequently, the page impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is set aside. the respondent is at liberty to seek legal remedy from the appropriate forum, if she is so advis ed. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.