page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. nisar alam son of muhammad ayub lecturer department of economics kiu gilgit. petitioner. vice chancellor karakorum international university others. respondents. present:- date of hearing: .. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil misc no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil misc. filed by the petitioner for initiation of contempt proceeding against the respondent was refused to be admitted for regular hearing, hence, this leave to appeal for setting aside the same by granting back benefits arrears to the petitioner. this court vide order da ted .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent was initially appointed as lecturer in karakorum international university on .. on contract basis for a perio of two years. the services of the respondent were terminated on page .. on account of violation of the service rules. consequently, he preferred a departmental appeal before the review committee of kiu which was accepted and the he was re -instated on his contractual service with some extra conditions. the respondent accepted the said conditions and joined his contract services on ... during the contractual services of the respondent, the petitioner advertised some posts of lectures in the daily newspaper dated .. for appointment as per rules of kiu gilgit -baltistan. the respondent twenty one () others being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said advertisement filed a writ petition no. in the learned chief court whi ch upon hearing was accepted vide ... since, the said judgment has not been implemented by the respondent despite lapse of three years, therefore, the petitioner move civil misc no. for implementation of the said judgment which upon hearing was accepted vide ... consequently, the respondent appointed the petitioner as lecturer on permanent basis on ... the petitioner again filed civil appeal no. contending therein that contempt proceedin gs under article of the gilgit -baltistan empowerment self governance) order, may be initiated against respondent for not implementing the order of the learned chief court which upon hearing was refused to be admitted for regular hearing. page the learned counsel for the petitioner contends that since respondent have partially implemented the .. passed in writ petition no. in complianc of the .., therefore, the petitioner filed contempt petiti on against the respondent which was refused to be admitted for regular hearing vide impugned .. passed in civil misc. no. he contends that although the services of the petitioner have been regularized on .. but the a rrears back benefits on account of pay allowances have not been paid to him instead of the orders the learned ch ief court, per learned counsel, the learned chief court did not consider that despite the appointment of the petitioner w.e.f. .. he has been deprived from his legitimate right of arrears against the said period on account of pay allowances. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned ..; therefore, the same is not tenable. he prays that the said impugned judgment the learned chief court may pleased be set aside by directing the respondent (kiu authorities to pay the arrears back benefits to the petitioner to meet the ends of justice. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned order which according to him is well reasoned and well founded. he prays that the said impugned order may very graciously be maintained. page we have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned .. in civil misc. no. the learned chief court. admittedly, the .. passed in writ petition no. by the learned chief court has already been implemented by the respondent by appointing the petitioner as lecturer (bps -) on permanent basis vide office order no. kiu -admin -() dated ... the filing of the contempt petition the petitioner is not sustainable which has rightly been refused to be admitted for regular hearing by the learned chief court through its well reasoned and well founded impugned order. further, the learned counsel for the petitioner failed to point out any illegality infirmity in the impugned order, hence, no interference is warranted into it. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequent thereto, the impugned .. in civil misc no. the learned chief court is upheld. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.