page supreme court of pakistan (appellate jurisdiction) present: malik of (against the .. the federal service tribunal, islamabad (karachi bench) in appeal no.(k)cs the sr. general manager (chief executive officer), pakistan railways, railway headquarter, lahore, others petitioner (s) syed qaiser abbas respondent (s) for the petitioner (s): asc (via l. lahore) for the respondent (s): n.r. assisted by: judicial law clerk, supreme court of pakistan date of hearing: .. judgment aqeel ahmed abbasi, j.- through instant leave to appeal, the petitioner have assailed the .. by the federal service tribunal, islamabad (karachi bench) in appeal no.(k)cs ). brief facts of the case are that the respondent, ex employee of pakistan railways holding the position of csr(b), was awarded major penalty of dismissal from service vide .. on charges of misappropriation of government cash amounting to rs. ,, and late remittance of daily revenue to the national bank of pakistan. the respondent preferred a departmental appeal on .. against the said dismissal through appeal no. (k)cs before the federal service tribunal, islama bad, karachi bench ("tribunal" ). the said appeal was disposed of vide .. with directions to the petitioner to decide the departmental appeal representation in accordance with law within a period of three months. thereafter, he said appeal representation was disposed of rejected vide .. received on .. after he was release from central page civil petition no. of jail, hyderabad on .., as according to the respondent he was confined in jail with effect from .. to ... the respondent assailed the .. of his dismissal from service before the tribunal through appeal bearing no. (k)cs which was disposed of by modifying the dismissal of service to compulsory retirement from service. the petitioner feeling aggrieved by such decision have filed instant civil leave to appeal. learned counsel for the petitioner contends that the tribunal has erred in law while passing the impugned judgment as a proper inquiry regular inquiry was conducted by the competent authority under the rules (i) and (ii) of the civil servants (efficiency and discipline) rules, (" rules, ). in support of his contentions, he has referred to pages to of the paper book to show that proper inquiry has been conducted. he contends that the said pages contain the inquiry proceedings and the findings of the competent authority which shows that no irregularity and illegality has been committed. he further contends that the impugned judgment is the result of misreading and non -reading of material evidence as the tribunal overlooked the fact that multiple show cause notices were duly issued, personal hearing was afforded and the respondent himself admitted the shortage of cash and that he has put it into his own use as verified in ca (audit inspection report). we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner s, perused the record and have also gone through the impugned judgment with the assistance of learned counsel. on the previous date of hearing, the learned counsel for the petitioner was confronted as to whether a regular inquiry was conducted in the matter for the reason that nothing was placed on record to establish that any order for conducting regular inquiry and appointment of inquiry officer as well as the report of regular inquiry was available on record. pursuant to such query, the learned counsel for the petitioner requested for some time to place on record such documents, however submitted that the tribunal has misread the evidence on record as according to learned counsel, regular inquiry was conducted in the matter. while seeking time to place on record the aforesaid documents, the learned counsel for the petitioner s, referred to the inquiry report available at page to which seems to be fact finding inquiry by the department and not a regular inquiry as envisaged under rules, page civil petition no. of it is a settled position of law that fact finding inquiry is distinct from a regular inquiry as envisaged under the rules, reference in this regard can be made to a judgment of this court in the case of faisal ali district police officer, gujrat and another scmr where in, distin ction has been made between fact finding inquiry and regular inquiry in the following terms: the benchmark of establishing innocence or guilt in the departmental proceedings initiated on account of some acts of misconduct under the relevant laws, meant for civil servants and workmen under industrial relations laws, is not the same as required to be proved in a criminal trial. in departmental inquiries, the standard of proof is based on the balance of probabilities or preponderance of evidence and not a strict proof beyond any reasonable doubt. let us also discuss the genre of inquiries to distinguish its primary purposefulness. the primary objective of conducting a discreet inquiry is to gather information without alerting the alleged delinquent, allowing for an understanding of whether the allegations lodged in a complaint or report of misconduct establish a prima facie case for proceeding with disciplinary action. obviously, while forming such opinion on the basis of information and data collected during the course of the discreet inquiry, the accused does not need to be involved in his defence. likewise, a fact -finding enquiry is more or less the same. the purpose of it is also to investigate, establish facts, and compile a report for the management so that disciplinary proceedings may be initiated if the competent authority chooses to do so in accordance with law. the purpose of the fact -finding inquiry is not to declare the delinquent innocent or guilty, which is the function of the inquiry officer inquiry committee, as the case may be. whereas, a regular inquiry is triggered after issuing a show cause notice with a statement of allegations, and if the reply is not found suitable, then the inquiry officer is appointed and a regular inquiry is commenced (unless dispensed with for some reasons, in writing) in which it is obligatory for the inquiry officer to allow an evenhanded and fair opportunity to the accused to place his defense, and if any witness is examined against him then a fair opportunity should also be given to him to cross -examine the witnesses. (emphasis provided) further reference can be made to the case of usman ghani the chief post master, gpo, karachi and others scmr ). it is also by now well settled that major penalty of dismissal from service cannot be awarded without conducting regular inquiry or providing opportunity of being heard to a civil servant, as it amounts to violation of principles of natural justice. reliance in this regard can be placed on a recent judgment of this court rendered in the case titled malik muhammad ramzan commissioner sargodha division etc. (cpla no. -l wherein, the aforesaid principle of law was reiterated by placing relianc on the cases of this court titled naseeb khan divisional superintendent, pakistan railways, lahore page civil petition no. of and another scmr ), raja muhammad shahid inspector general of police and others scmr and federation of pakistan through chairman federal board of revenue fbr house, islamabad and others zahid malik scmr ). when the matter was taken up for the hearing on .., attention of the learned counsel for the petitioner was drawn to previous .. whereby, the learned counsel sought time to place on record the requisite documents including the regular inquiry report, as no such documents to this effect have been place on record. learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that no new documents are required to be placed before this court for the reason that the inquiry report available at page to is the detailed inquiry report, which establishes the charge of embezzlement of amount against respondent, who otherwise has confessed his guilt to the effect that he had take the money for personal use and he had made it good by depositing back the said amount. such contention of learned counsel is prima facie contrary to the record as no material or evidence is available on record nor any regular inquiry has been conducted as required under the rules, the falsity of the assertion for having conducted regular inquiry in the instant matter is reflected from the recommendations of the departmental inquiry committee available at page of the paper book, which reads as follow s: a) b) daily remittance cash be ensured under commercial manual rules c) to avoid recurrencies of such instances in future, icg and cmi concerned should conduct monthly inspections and submit joint report to ds and fa cao. d) stm kc to check cash remittance on weekly basis and submit report to dco." from perusal of hereinabove recommendations of the departmental inquiry committee it is established that only recommendation to take action under the rules, has been made and no regular inquiry as required under rules, has been conducted in instant matter, whereas, major punishment of dismissal from service was imposed upon the respondent based on fact finding inquiry without providing any opportunity of being heard to the respondent thus denying the right of fair trial as guaranteed u nder article (a) of the constitution of islamic republic of pakistan, page civil petition no. of while imposing any major or minor penalty regular inquiry has to be conducted to establish the charges against a civil servant, unless it is dispensed with, while disclosing sufficient reason in writing in terms of rule (iii) of rules, the law does not permit the dispensation of regular inquiry even in cases where minor penalty is imposed, unless there are sufficient reasons disclosed by the competent authority for dispensation of regular inquiry. in order to ensure transparency and fair trial in the departmental proceedings against a civil servant, adherence to the law, rules and procedure prescribed therein must be made in letter and spirit. fair trial is sine qua non as guaranteed under article (a) of the constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan, which has to be read into every statute, including the civil servant act, and cannot be ignored under any circumstances, irrespective of the fact that the penalty imposed against a civil servant pursuant to such proceedings is major or minor in nature. a division bench of this court while deciding similar issue in the case of hafiz abdul rauf passco lahor etc. (cpla no. vide .. has dilated in detail upon aforesaid principle while relying upon various judgments of the superior courts as well as by referring to article of the universal declaration of human rights and article of the international covenant on civil and political rights, according to which "everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal in the determination of his rights and obligations." and "a proper inquiry is the procedural instrument through which fairness is operationalized. it enables the accused to know the case against them, respond to evidence, and test the credibility of witnesses and documents. penalties whether classified as minor or major imposed without adherence to this process amount to arbitrary deprivation of rights, contravene the guarantees of fair trial and due process, and fall foul of pakistan constitutional framework and its international commitments. international law does not countenance punitive outcomes founded on untested allegations; nor can the constitution." in view of hereinabove facts and the legal position as emerged in the instant case, we have no hesitation to hold that the impugned judgment the tribunal does not suffer from any factual error or legal infirmity, therefore, does not require any interference by this court. moreover, no substantial question of law of page civil petition no. of public importance has been raised in terms of article () of the constitution in this petition. accordingly, this petition is dismissed and leave refused. .. approved for reporting tanveer ahmed