page in the supreme court of pakistan (appellate jurisdiction) present: hcj -l of (against .. of the lahore high court, multan bench, multan passed in writ petition no. of sajid hussain petitioner additional district judge, vehari and others responden ts for the petitioner: syed tayyab nasir mahmood jafri, asc. for the respondent s: not represented. date of hearing: .. order miangul hassan aurangzeb, j.- throug the instant petition, the petitioner saj id hussain, assails the .. the lahore high court, whereby writ petition no. of filed by him against the judgments and decrees dated .. and .. the family court and the appellate court, respectively, was dismissed in limine. waqar hussain respondent no. waqar and mst. iqra bibi respondent no. iqra got married on ... the marriage was short -lived. iqra position was that just after ten to twelve days of marriage, waqar tortured her but she continued living with him for the sake of her parents honour. it was when she demanded her dower mentioned in column no. of the nikahnama, waqar expelled her from her matrimonial abode after which she started living with her parents. page cpla no. -l of -: :- as per clause of the nikahnama (exh.p5), in lieu of dower iqra was to be given kanals of land in khewat no. khatooni no. mouza muhammad shah, tehsil mailsi, district vehari valuing rs.,, dowered land ). as per the record of rights at the time of nikah, this property was owned by waqar. through mutation no. dated .. waqar transferred this land to his father, ghaffar hussain shah, who transferred it to his other son israr hussain shah respondent no. israr through registered deed no. dated .. and mutation no. dated ... the petitioner asserts that out of the kanals of land, he purchased kanals through mutation no. dated .., and the remaining kanals, marlas through registered sale deed no. dated .. and mutation no., dated .. from israr. the petitioner claims to be a bona fide purchaser of the dowered land hav ing no prior knowledge of entries in column no. of the nikahnama dated ... on .., iqra filed a suit for recovery of dower and maintenance allowance. this suit was decreed ex-parte on ... the petitioner and israr filed separate applications for the setting aside of the ex-parte judgment and decree. these applications were allowed vide .. and iqra was directed to file a plaint wherein the petitioner and israr are impleaded as defendants. iqra the said order was dismissed by the appellate court vide ... thereafter, an amended plaint was filed before the trial court. in the post-remand proceedings, israr was proceeded against ex-parte. the suit was contested the petitioner by filing a written statement. from the divergent pleadings of the contesting parties, the trial court page cpla no. -l of -: :- framed issues vide ... after a long -drawn-out trial, on .. the suit was decreed once again. the appeal preferred by the petitioner against the judgment and decree of the trial court was dismissed by the appellate court vide judgment and decree dated ... writ petition no. filed by the petitioner against the said judgments and decrees was dismissed by the high court vide .., which has been assailed in the instant petition. learned counsel for the petitioner, after narrating the facts leading to the filing of the instant petition, submitted that prior to purchasing dowered land from israr, the petitioner had no knowledge as to the entries in column no. of the nikahnama dated ..; that the petitioner was a bona fide purchaser of the dowered land; that the petitioner had purchased kanals out of the dowered land through mutation no., dated .. (i.e., prior to the institution of the suit), whereas the remaining portion of kanals, marlas was purchased through registered sale deed no. dated .. (i.e., after the institution of the suit); that it was waqar obligation to pay maintenance and dower claimed by his wife, iqra; that the petitioner was neither a signatory nor a witness to the nikahnama; that a claim for dower could not be made against the petitioner; and that even otherwise, the nikahnama dated .. is forged and fictitious. learned counsel for the petitioner prayed for the petition to be allowed. we have heard the contentions of the learned counsel for the petitioner and have perused the record with his able assistance. the facts leading to the filing of the instant petition have been set out in page cpla no. -l of -: :- sufficient detail in paragraphs to above and need not be recapitulated. as mentioned above, iqra suit was decreed ex-parte on ... for the setting aside of the ex-parte judgment and decree, the petitioner filed an application on ... on the said date, he had also filed an application to be impleaded as a defendant in the suit. what can be deduced from this is that by .. the entry of the dowered land in column no. of the nikahnama dated .. was well within the petitioner knowledge. the petitioner being equipped with this knowledge went ahead and purchased the second chunk of dowered land measuring kanals, marlas through registered sale deed no. dated .. (exh.d6) and mutation no., dated .. (exh.p9). this fact makes the petitioner claim as to being a bona fide purchaser of the dowered land and having no knowledge as to its encumbrance on the basis of the nikahnama dated .., totally without substance. the petitioner does not dispute the factum of the nikah between waqar and iqra but asserts that the nikahnama dated .. (exh.p4) is forged and fictitious. learned counsel for the petitioner did ot present any explanation for not challenging the validity of the said nikahnama once he came to know as to its existence. iqra was successful in proving the execution as well the contents of the nikahnama by producing the secretary of union council no., budh ghulam muhammad, tehsil and district vehari as pw and the nikah registrar as pw -. both these witnesses gave testimony consistent with iqra stance that the page cpla no. -l of -: :- nikahnama was duly executed and registered and that the entries in column no. thereof mentioned the dowered land. it was to defeat iqra efforts to recover her dowered land and to embroil her in lengthy litigation that waqar and israr along with their father, ghaffar hussain shah, resorted to the nefarious design of executing transactions for the transfer of the dowered land between themselves and then with the petitioner over a span of just days. iqra has been languishing in different courts ever since she instituted the suit on ... for the past four years, iqra has been clamoring for her ownership rights over the dowered land by resorting to the agony of litigation. an interesting aspect of this case is that waqar had instituted a suit before the court of the civil judge, mailsi, vehari against his father, ghaffar hussain shah, his brother, israr as well as the petitioner praying for a declaration to the effect that the transfer of the dowered land through mutations and sale deeds referred to in paragraph above are false, scandalous, without consideration and fictitious. apparently, issues in this suit were framed but waqar chose not to produce evidence and conse quently vide .., the suit was dismissed for want of evidence. on .., here was yet another suit filed by one, qaswar hussain shah (who is waqar close relative for the specific performance of an oral agreement dated .. to sell kanals of land (including the dowered land) against waqar. other than waqar, israr, the petitioner, and ghaffar hussain shah were also defendant in this suit. as per the contents of this suit, the cause of action for filing the suit accrued to qaswar hussain shah on .. when waqar transferred the dowered land to his page cpla no. -l of -: :- father through mutation no., dated ... waqar appeared in this case and on .. recorded his statement to the effect that he had entered into an agreement to sell the said land to qaswar hussain shah and had also handed him over possession on receipt of sale consideration amounting to rs.,, -; and that subsequently, waqar father, ghaffar hussain shah and brother, israr abducted him and fraudulently transferred the said land from his name. he also stated that qaswar hussain shah claim is truthful and that he would have no objection if the suit was decreed. ghaffar hussain shah on .. also recorded his statement to the effect that waqar had not transferred the dowered land in his favour through mutation no. dated .. and that he would also have no objection if qaswar hussain shah suit is decreed. there is nothing on the record to indicate whether this suit was decreed or not. it is also ot understandable as to why the petitioner has annexed documents with respect to the said suit in the instant petition when the memo of the petition has no reference to the said suit. be that as it may, we are of the view that once a certain property is entered in the nikahnama as a wife dower and such dower is to be paid on demand andal talab ), the husband is to keep the property reserved for transfer to the wife as and when she makes the demand. in the case at hand, after iqra left her matrimonial abode, her husband, waqar transferred the dowered land to his father, ghaffar hussain shah, who in turn transferred it to his other son, israr, who has transferred it to the petitioner. these transfers have been made through mutations which are a part of the record. these transfers were made within a short span of twenty days. the page cpla no. -l of -: :- petitioner claim as to being a bona fide purchaser of the dowered land is not believable as he had purchased kanals and marlas of the dowered land on .. and by this time, he had already filed an application to be impleaded as a party in respondent no. suit. consequently, he was well aware of the entry of the dowered land in the nikahnama dated .. when he purchased the kanals and marlas. if at all the transaction between the petitioner and israr was an arm s-length transaction, the petitioner would have the remedy to recover from the latter the amount paid to him along with profit. the transactions with res pect to the dowered land behind iqra back would be of no consequence, in that they cannot operate to deprive her from asserting ownership with respect to the dowered land. since we have been given no plausible reason to interfere with the three concurrent judgments under challenge, leave to appeal is declined and consequently, the petition is dismissed. chief the 27th october, approved for reporting ehtesham