page in the supreme court of pakistan (appellate jurisdiction) present: -l of (on appeal a gainst the .. of the lahore high court, lahore in cr. appeal no. hassan khan petitioner the state respondent for the petitioner: syed muhammad tayyab shah, asc for the state: dpg punjab date of hearing: .. order malik shahzad ahmad khan, j.- the petitioner was tried by the learned additional sessions judge, kallur kot pursuant to a case registered vide fir no. dated .. under section ppc at police station jandan wala, district bhakkar. the learned trial court vide its .. convicted the petitioner under section ppc and senten ced him to suffer rigorous imprisonment for a period of years. he was also directed to pay an amount of rs., as compensation to the victim mst. farhat bibi or in default thereof to further undergo simple imprisonment for six months. benefit of ection -b cr.p.c. was also extended in favour of the petitioner. the learned high court dismissed the appeal filed by the petitioner and upheld the judgment of the trial court. arguments heard. record perused. as per contents of the fir, mst. farhat bibi, complainant, alleged that about months prior to the registration of fir at page cr. petition no. -l -: :- am (morning), she went out of her house towards a nearby forest to answer the call of nature. the petitioner was already hiding in the afore -mentioned forest, who forcibly captured the complainant and committed rape with her at pistol point, hence, the fir of this case. after hearing the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned law officer at some length, we have noted that according to the dna test, the petitioner cannot be excluded being the biological father of the child, who was born due to the act of the petitioner but the moot point for determination before this court is that as to whether it is a case of rape punishable under section ppc or it is a case of zina with consent fornication punishable under section -b ppc. it is noteworthy that the occurrence in this case took place months prior to the registration of fir. the complainant alleged that on the day of occurrence, at about am (morning), she went to the forest situated near her house to answer the call of nature where the petitioner was already hiding, who forcibly committed rape with her at pistol point. it is not understandable that as to how the petitioner knew that the complainant would come in the afore mentioned forest on the day of occurrence at am. the prose cution case in this respect is completely silent. moreover, no resistan ce was offered by the complainant at the time of occurrence. the medical officer did not note any healed mark of violence on the entire body of the alleged victim. even the clothes of the alleged victim were not produced before the police or before the learned trial court to show that the same were torn at the time of occurrence. it shows that the alleged victim did not offer any resistance. the prosecution evidence shows that the occurr ence took place near the house of the complainant i.e. near a residential area but no hue and cry was raised by the complainant at the time of occurrence to attract the people of page cr. petition no. -l -: :- the area to save her. it is also noteworthy that after the occurrence, the alleged victim came back to her house where her brother and other family members were admittedly living but she remained mum for almost months. the long silence of the complainant for a period of months speaks volumes against her conduct, therefore, the story narrated by the complainant with the delay of months regarding forcible rape cannot be relied upon blindly. it is true that a pistol was allegedly recovered on the poin ting out of the petitioner but the said pistol was not used during the occurrence. the pistol was recovered from a residential house and no witness of the locality was associated during the recovery proceedings, which is violative of the provisions of section cr.p.c., hence, the said recovery cannot be relied upon. learned counsel for the petitioner has vehemently argued that the dna test report of this case is not reliable. he submits that the occurrence in this case allegedly took place about months prior to the registration of fir and buccal swabs of the petiti oner and the minor child were taken on .. and .., respectively, but according to the dna test report, the said swabs were analyzed and examined in the forensic science laboratory on .. i.e. after about year from the date of taking of the swabs of the petitioner and the minor child. he has referred to a research paper published by the international journal of pharmaceutical sciences. the perusal of the said research paper shows that the buccal swabs disintegrates within a per iod of two weeks, therefore, a serious question has arisen regarding the authenticity of the afore -mentioned dna test report. however, we would not like to comment upon the merits and demerits of the afore -mentioned arguments and authenticity of the dna te st report as the above -referred issue shall be decided in some other case. we are of the view that even otherwise, the page cr. petition no. -l -: :- allegation of sexual intercourse with the complainant has been proved through the evidence of the complainant, duly supported by the medical evidence of dr. ruqia asim (pw -). however, all the above mentioned facts show that it was not a case of forcible rape. as mentioned earlier, the evidence of the complainant to the extent of commission of illicit intercourse with her by the petitioner is established in this case. the evidence of the complainant to the said extent remained unshaken during cross -examination and the same is confidence inspiring. the prosecution case to the extent of allegation of sexual intercourse with the complainant has also been supported by the medical evidence brought on the record through dr. ruqia asim (pw-), who stated that vagina of the complainant admitted two fingers easily. we are, therefore, of the view that the prosecution has proved its case to the extent of offence of zina with consent (fornication) punishable under section ppc against the petitioner beyond the shadow of any doubt. after examining the entire prosecution case, we have come to this irresistible conclusion that it is not a case of rape as envisaged under section ppc, rather it is a case of fornication i.e. zina with consent punishable under section -b ppc. we are aware of the fact that once we hold that it is a case of fornication punishable under section -b ppc then mst. farhat bibi, complainant is also liable to be proceeded against and punished as an accused of the offence of illicit intercourse with consent but as she was not challaned by the police and no charge of fornication under section -b ppc was framed against her by the learned trial court, thus, she had no opportunity to defend herself, therefore, it will not be appropriate to punish her at this stage without providing her opportunity of defence. page cr. petition no. -l -: :- it is true that the petitioner was not charged under section -b ppc but it is by now well settled that if the charge for major offence is framed against an accused but from the evidence it is established that a minor offence has been made out then the accused can be convicted and sentenced for the minor offence as envisaged under section () cr.p.c. we may refer here the case of muhammad sharif the state scmr where the charge under section () of the zina (enforcement of hudood) ordinance, was framed against the accused but from the evidence of said case it was established that it was a case of zina with consent punishable under section () of the ordinance ibid, therefore, the accused was accordingly convicted and sentenced under section () of the zina (enforcement of hudood) ordinance, i.e. zina with consent. it is pertinent to mention here that the offence of zina with consent section () of zina (enforcement of hudood) ordinance, has been substituted with th offence of fornication punishable under section -b ppc, pursuant to amendment brought under the protection of women (criminal laws amendment) act, similarly, in the cases of ijaz ahmed the state scmr ), amir muhammad the state scmr and muhammad shabbir the state scmr ), the accused of the said case were convicted and sentenced for offence of zina with consent punishable under section () of zina (enforcement of hudood) ordinance, instead of the offence of rape punishable under section () of zina (enforcement of hudood) ordinance, for what has been discussed above, by a majority of (, dissenting), this petition is converted into an appeal and the same is partly allowed. the impugned judgment is modified to the extent that conviction and sentence of the page cr. petition no. -l -: :- petitioner appellant under section ppc is set aside and he is acquitted from the said charge and instead the petitioner appellant is convicted under section -b ppc and is sentenced to years rigorous imprisonment with a fine of rs. or in default whereof to further undergo months simple imprisonment. per for reasons to be recorded later, this petition is dismissed and leave is refused. the 2nd of december, not approved for reporting khurram