page salahuddin panhwar, however, i humbly disagree with the view expressed by my brother in bench, therefore, i hereby choose to express my own views for dismissing th is petition. briefly, the matter concerns a rape of a girl who is of approximately years of age, resultantly a child was born as a result of such occurrence which is established through dna report of punjab forensic science agency, that the accused and the complainant are biolog ical parents of such new born child. the rime report of the said incident was lodged after a delay of approximately seven months. the view by my learned brother in para of the main order is reproduced as under: it is noteworthy that after the occurrence, the alleged victim came back to her house where her brother and other family members were admittedly living but she remained mum for almost months. the long silence of the complainant for a period of month speaks volumes against her conduct, therefore, the story narrated by the complainant with the delay of months regarding forcible rape cannot be relied upon blindly. there is no cavil on the fact that cases of rape, as well as cases of sexual harassment go unreported in our society, the victims are fearful of the consequences of reporting, a victim of rape or sexual harassment often has to justify his own family members in regards to his own character at the time when he she reports about the particular occurrence. in the case in hand, the victim is of young age, unmarried, her parents have passed away, she has an elder brother and record also shows evidence of threats forwarded to the victim, it clearly makes sense as to how reluctant a girl would be in these circumstances to share such an unfortunate occurrence with her own brother. it appeals to us as in common course of natural event that her reluctance to report would have continued till she would have known about her pregnancy. it was observed by this court that the delay in reporting sexual assault to the police is therefore not very material as held in irfan and th at delay in such cases is not fatal to the case of prosecution keeping in mind the article of qanun -e-shahadat order irfan ali sher the state (pld sc page dilemma of our society, this court has held in mehboob ahmad that: as to the apparent delay in lodging of the f.i.r., we cannot be unmindful of the prevailing taboos in our society. even in modern day advanced societies, for and on account of the prevalent predilections, cases of rape go unreported. a victim of rape shou ld not be penalized on account of ostensible delay in reporting what she has undergone. on the contrary, kindness, encouragement and understanding are the requirements to approbate a victim difficult decision to purge the society of perpetrators of such heinous offences. additional ly it was observe by this court in zahid that: delay in reporting the crime to the police in respect of an offence involving a person honour and reputation and which society may view unsympathetically could prey on the minds of a victim and her family and deter them to go to the police as far as the contention is concerned that there were no marks of violence on body of victim and such shall favor the accused, i am of a different view, as the accused was carrying a weapon, and any victim would be reluctant to resist such a perpetrator with a weapon in hand, as observed in the mehboob ahmad case referred above that a deadly weapon in hands of a perpetrator is factor for lack of marks of violence on body of victim due to the fear of harm. even otherwise, the medical examination could ha ve not effectively capture the physical resistance by victim after a time span of approximately seven months. in regards to the dna report of punjab forensic science agency, record shows that buccal swab standards of complainant farhat bibi were taken on november buccal swab standards of hassan khan were taken on november and buccal swab standards of new born baby were taken on december whereas the analysis was conducted on april, as far as the views of my learned brother in para of the main order which reads as under: he has referred to a research paper published by international journal of pharmaceutical sciences. the perusal of the said mehboob ahmad the state scmr zahid another the state page research paper shows that the buccal swabs disintegrates within a period of two weeks, therefore, a serious question has arisen regarding the authenticity of the afore -mentioned dna test report. it has come to my notice that a common practice in pfsa in regards to dna is that, when buccal swab standards are collected, the pfsa promptly extracts dna from buccal swab standards and preserves it into its dna library, such preserved dna can be safely relied for purposes of testing for a very long period. even otherwise, odern day science has evolved a lot and preservation methods such as drying the swabs are effective in preserving such evidence for a longer duration, as dna is best preserved in an air -dried, water -free environment. water can cause instability and breakage in strands that bind dna, which would degrade the ability to properly test. it will be a fallacy to only focus on the preservation period of the buccal swab standards alone, to examine its authen ticity, rather it is the dna extracted from the buccal swab standards which can sta for years. therefore, a period of approximately years after the collection of swabs does not seem as a period which can discredit the evidentiary value of such dna in given circumstances. there is no cavil of proposition that, if an act carries two punishment listed under two or more offences under penalizing statute (s), the lesser can be awarded in view of mitigating circumstances. however, this applies to the situation where the act squarely falls within both of the said offences and the scenario would comp letely change if the required ingredients of the offence to which it will be altered are not fulfilled. the standard of proof in criminal cases is that the prosecution shall establi sh the guilt beyond reasonable doubt, unlike the preponderance of evidence in civil matters6. to alter the conviction under one provision to another will mandatorily require that the basic ingredients of the provision to which it will be altered must be fulfilled beyond reasonable doubt. the instant case in concerns two provisions of the pakistan penal code (ppc); section and section -b, both offenses are two distinct offenses carrying two different punishments. it is pertinent to mention that both have separate ingredients required for the conviction under this provision. section -b which deals with fornication means that both parties involved were involved in the act with an equal consent; full and free consent as the concerned text of -b guidelines for evidence collection, preservation and transportation pfsa sher afzal the state scmr page ppc reads as: a man and a woman not married to each other are said to commit fornication if they willfully have sexual intercourse with one another. it is distinct from section ppc, which means that this concerns with the act which is not consensual and such is against the will of the person who is the victim of such offense. this modification is not justified, unless the element of consent is established through independent and cogent evidence, and not merely on the basis of assumptions or surmises. the petitioner was not initially charged with section -b of the pakistan penal code and was charged under section of the pakistan penal code, it would not be appropriate merely for the purposes of reducing the sentence to modify a conviction under section of the pakistan penal code to a conviction under section -b of the pakistan penal code which would be against the basic principles of law which states that to convict a person under a particular offense all the ingredients of that offense must be proved beyond reasonable doubt. lastly another view which i humbly disagree is state in para of the main order that: after examining the entire prosecution case, we have come to this irresistible conclusion that it is not a case of rape as envisaged under section ppc, rather it is a case of fornication i.e. zina with consent punishable under section -b ppc i am of the opinion that, it is not appropriate to modify the conviction under section ppc while questioning the authenticity of dna report and at the same time rely on same report for a conviction under section -b. if it appears to the court that such evidence furnished to prove a charge is not credible enough, such evidence cannot be relied to prove a different charge. the court cannot convict a person on the basis of preponderance of evidence or on mere assumptions that if one particular act is no proved, meaning thereby in cases where a victim fails to prove the offence of rape, it will not automatically establish the consent of the victim. it is for the very reason that this particular modification is sensitive matter, concerning dignity and hono r, for which quran has expressively stated that: indeed, we have dignified the children of adam, carried them on land and sea, granted them good and lawful provisions, and privileged them far above many of our creatures. (:) (al -isra) page before departing with this dissenting note, i would appreciate the assistance rendered by dr. javed iqbal, who is professor of biotechnology and chair of genomics dna fingerprinting research group and dean faculty of life sciences, university of central punjab, on the dna procedure. therefore, in the light of the above, the leave to appeal is refused and the petition stands dismissed, the conviction of the petitioner is maintained. (jlc) .. islamabad approved for reporting