page 1cri. pla no. of additional note i had a privilege of going through the majority view to which i agreed in toto, however, the following is the ... as already mentioned in the majority judgment that the fir was registered on the complaint of shaukat ali received a call from the police station that his daughter has been found dead at the residence of the petitioner. the etc., were also implicated. the petitioner was concurrently well as the filed this petition by taking various grounds. as far as delay in lodging the fir at p.m. of anadditional note of the judgment signed by petitioner was therefore nominated later in the supplementary statement, muhammad jamil appellate court under section (b) ppc as tazir and also under section ppc by the trial court against which hecrl. pla no. of zahid zakir jaffar the state through advocate general islamabad as a single accused but occurrence at p.m. is concerned, it has been rightlymuqaddam (pw-) that his daughter went missing on .. and on the same day at p.m., he sentenced to death by the trial court asme on page 2cri. pla no. of held in the impugned judgment that on .. abid p.m. likewise, mst. aqsa rani (pw-) also stated at about the same time she reached the place of occurrence and, therefore, the statement of the complainant of the occurrence in which a lady was beheaded in a posh conscious and had rightly waited for her dear and near to therapy workers had arrived at p.m. who had tried to this background there is no element of concoction and .. at a.m.receiving the information that he murder of his daughter is well corroborated. obviously,was informed about the conducting the postmortem ondraft the complaint for registration of fir (exh.pa ). in deliberation to falsely implicate the petitioner. as far as the delay autopsy of deceased is concerned, the perusal of the postmortem report (exh.pac) showsoverpower the petitioner during which one of them was seriously injured but it is natural that after reaching the place of occurrence the complainant (pw-) being the real father of the victim required some time and extra ordinaryarea of islamabad, the police was required to be extra nerves to absorb the extreme shock of his life and thencome forward. it is the prosecution version that thelatif (pw-) had reached the place of occurrence at p.m. and basharat rehman (pw-) reached the place of occurrence at p.m. after when he received a call at page 3cri. pla no. of anam shahzadi (pw-) and dr. sara ali hashmi (pw-) this court in muhammad rafiq caseh the death was found unnatural. this delay of conducting postmortem of about hours is not fatal as the autopsy is to be conducted after when the inquest report and injury also mindful of the fact the fir. so far as the status of dvr and cctv footages are concerned, it had been already explained in the majority muhammad rafique alias feeqa the state scmr )suggesting the approximate time between death and hours which report was signed by dr. who had helped and assisted the signatory for taking essential steps during the postmortem as envisaged under section of the police rules, and emphasized by (pw-) had produced report (vide exh.p- and exh.p- which have been watched by the appellate court and in the relevant part of the recording it was visible that noor muqaddam (deceased) jumped out of the window openingpostmortem as shazia nazir (pw-). dr. hammad hussain (pw-), dr. statement were prepared. we are hours in the daylight. there was no delay in conductingthat in a high-profile case like the present one the doctors always try to go by the book and, therefore, had preferred to conduct the autopsy in the morning in the normal office view of this court, suffice it to say that mudassar alam page 4cri. pla no. of from the first floor and landed on the railing and then she muhammad iftikhar chowkidar locked the door and proceeded towards the basement ignoring the condition of the said lady. meanwhile, the petitioner jumped and landed on the floor of the porch and snatched the mobile phone of deceased, locked her in the outer cabin along with the main gate of the house meant as guard room. he then opened the cabin and physically assaulted her whereas muhammad jan did not make any effort to stop the petitioner. she was then dragged back into the house of the petitioner which was her last glimpse in the cctv footages. the unseen occurrence the eye of camera and the scene was recorded. it was not mere seeing the petitioner with the deceased before the unnatural death caused in most brutal manner, but there with crime as held in muhammad abid case. besides, the said snatched mobile phone by the petitioner had been (exh.pbe). in his defence recorded under section cr.p.c. the petitioner had admitted that he and the deceased were the insistence of deceased a drug muhammad abid the state and another (pld sc )was therefore seen with good friends and onare circumstantial evidence which connect the petitionercame limping towards main gate to escape when recovered from his possession vide recovery memo page 5cri. pla no. of intoxicant was identified in the medical evidence either of the deceased or of the petitioner, and no any guest of drug party was seen in the said cctv footage. as far as the plea of insanity is concerned, the remand and that no evidence was produced in defence to due to which, he became infurious and went out of mind. .petitioner has taken a plea in the application under section cr.p.c. that he is a lunatic unsound mind at the given time and relied on safia bano case we have noticed that such plea was never raised at the time of petitioner used to consult any psychiatrist, therapy workers or consume any drug in the absence of which, or prosecution had not set up any motive against the petitioner for the commission of offence by the petitioner is concerned, needless to observe that it was not theirparty was arranged at his house in which she consumed excessive drug and become out of mind and when he regained conscious, he found himself tied in a room. this found incorrect for the reason; that no mst. safia bano home department govt, of punjab (pld sc )version was any psychiatric problem otherwise there was no evidence on record that thefortify the contention that the petitioner was suffering from or mental disorder. even so far as absence of motive is concerned, the page 6cri. pla no. of bounded duty to prove as such as held in talib hussain as far as the commission of offence under section ppc is concerned, the medical evidence of the deceased shows the presence of semen matched with dna of the petitioner but keeping in view the other evidence the death sentence has been converted into life imprisonment under section ppc for the reason given in the majority judgment. in my view as well the no mitigating circumstances existed in the present case, the minor discrepancies in the time of occurrence, the delay in postmortem, absence of the finger prints on the knife but matched with the dna of the petitioner, minor delay in lodging the fir would not affect the credibility of the prosecution evidence which had circumstantial evidence, one end of the rope is found tied with the dead body of noor muqaddam and the other end tied with the neck of the petitioner. of a vice spreading in the upper society which we know asproved the guilt of the petitioner beyond any reasonable doubt to award a capital punishment. in this case of talib hussain the state scmr )case" living relationship in which societal compulsions are10. i also observed that the present case is a direct result page 7cri. pla no. of ignored so as to defy not only the law of the land but also the personal law under islam sharia which is a direct revolt against almighty allah. the young generation must note its horrible consequences such as in the present case which is also a topic for the social reformist, to discuss in their circles. islamabad .. a.qadoos (ali baqar najafi) judge