page in the supreme court of pakistan (appellate jurisdiction) present: of (against the of the islamabad high court passed in i.c.a. no.-w of federation of pakistan through ministry of water power and another appellant spencer powergen company of pakistan limited respondent for the appellants: asc for the respondent: sr. asc and asc along with syed rifaqat hussain shah, aor. date of hearing: ... order miangul hassan aurangzeb, j. through the instant appeal, the appellant assail .. the division bench of the islamabad high court, dismissing intra court appeal no.-w filed by the appellant against the .. the single bench of the said court, whereby writ petition no. filed by the respondent, was allowed with the direction to the appellant to refund the amount received by them on the encashment of the performance guarantee pg furnished by the respondent along with profit at the prevailing bank rate from the date of its encashment (i.e., ..) till refund. the record shows that in march, the government of pakistan had issued policy framework and package of incentives for private sector power generation projects in pakistan power page civil appeal no. of -: :- policy ). this policy was to be administered by respondent no. private power and infrastructure board ppib ). in reliance on the representations in the said policy, and induced thereby, respondent no. with the av owed object of setting up a ega watt mw single cycle thermal power generation plant based on residual furnace oil at sindh industrial trading estate, north karachi, applied to the ppib for the issuance of a letter of interest loi ). on .., ppib issued a loi to the respondent for setting up a mw power project. as per the terms of the loi, the project was to be implemented on fast -track basis and commissioned by august the financial close for the project was required to be achieved within six months from the date of the issuance of a letter of support los ). the respondent was required to furnish a pg for an amount of rs., per mw to be issued by a scheduled bank licensed to operate in pakistan. the pg was required to be valid for a period of four weeks beyond the validity of the los, which was to be issued on the furnishing of an acceptable pg to the ppib. on .., the respondent furnished a pg in the form of a bank guarantee for an amount of rs.,, issued by habib bank ag zurich. since the pg furnished by the respondent was acceptable to ppib, the latter, on .., issued an los to the respondent superseding the terms of the loi dated ... the los was, in essence, the president of pakistan permission to the respondent to design, finance, ensure, build, wn, operate, and maintain a mw power plan t. the project was required to be commissioned by august clause (j) of the los provided that it would automatically terminate six months from the date of its issuance, unless extended in writing by the government of pakistan through ppib. page civil appeal no. of -: :- within six months of the issuance of the los, the respondent was required to achieve financial clos e. in the context of setting up power generation projects, financial close is a key milestone that marks the stage when all the project financing arrangements are finalized and funds are available for full -scale construction and implementation of the project. the terms of the los explicitly provided that in the event financial close is not achieved within six months, the pg was to be encashed. in fulfilment of its obligations under clause b() of the los, the respondent executed an implementation agreement dated .. with the president of pakistan. the documents on the record show that the validity of the los was extended to ... in several sponsors of private power projects held letters of support for a cumulative generation capacity exceeding the projected national demand for electricity. it was feared that if all these projects reached financial close within the validity eriods of their respective letters of support, the country would face a surplus of electricity. this matter was taken up by the economic coordination committee of the cabinet ecc in its meeting held on ... on .. the ecc, while considering the progress report on private power projects submitted by the ministry of water and power, decided inter alia that he private pow er projects totaling (three) thousand megawatts only should be constructed and a cut -off date for achieving financial close should be proposed by the ppib for consideration of the ecc. furthermore, it was decided that only those private power projects which succeed, ahead of others, in achieving financial close before the cumulative limit of (three) thousand megawatts should be allowed to implement their projects. what is of significance for the purposes of the instant case is that it page civil appeal no. of -: :- was also decided that the projects that do not achieve financial close before the cumulative limit of (three) thousand megawatts is reached, should not be allowed to implement their projects and their bank guarantees should be encashed. the ministry of water and power had submitted a summary dated .. to the ecc on the subject of encashment of performance guarantees. this summary was considered by the ecc i its meeting dated ... the minutes of th said meeting show that the ecc was informed that ppib had encashed the pg furnished by sponsors of various private power projects as they could not achieve financial close within the stipulated deadline s. these sponsors had expressed their disquiet over the encashment of thei pgs as they had apparently spent huge amounts on preparatory work for their projects. it was apprehended that some of these projects might embroil the government in litigation arbitration which would cause expenditure to the government and tarnish its image abroad. it was proposed that their guarantees be returned subject to an agreement that they would not pursue any legal claims against the government. in the said meeting, the ecc decided that the matter should be reviewed in consultation with the finance division and the law and a revised summary be submitted to the ecc. of crucial significance to this case is the letter dated .. from the cabinet division making reference to the ecc decision dated .. on the subject of enforcement of performance guarantees. this letter shows that the decision taken by the ecc on .. was substituted with the following: the economic coordination committee of the cabinet considered the summary dated 13th june, on encashment of performance guarantees submitted by the ministry of water and power and page civil appeal no. of -: :- decided that for projects which held valid los. on -- the entire performance guarantee be returned on failure to reach financial close on due date. this should be in lieu of an agreement (legally binding on both parties) prepared in consultation with ppib lawyers for release of all parties under the ia, ppa, fsa as well as commitment, for non -pursuance of any legal claims, material or otherwise. fo the remaining cases, the matter should be reviewed in consultation with the finance division, law an (ppib) and a fresh summary should be submitted to the ecc. (emphasis added) vide letter dated .., ppib informed the respondent that financial clos of private power projects with cumulative capacity in excess of mw ha taken place and therefore its los stands invalid at this time. furthermore, the respondent was informed that its case for the grant of an extension was under consideration. ppib did not approve the term sheet (i.e. non binding summary of the key commercial and financial terms that parties agree on before drafting the final, legally binding contracts) submitted by the respondent on the ground that its los was no longer valid. ppib took the position that it would consider approving the term sheet after an extension in the los. the los was never extended beyond ... on .. ppib made a demand for the encashment of the pg for rs.,, furnished by the respondent. vide letter dated .., habib bank ag zurich informed respondent no. that the pg had been encashed and the respondent no. account had been debited. this prompted respondent no. to file writ petition no. before the islamabad high court praying for inter alia a declaration to the effect that the encashment of its pg was without lawful authority. furthermore, it was prayed that ppib be directed to return the amount received by it pursuant to such encashment along with interest. the content of the respondent writ petition show that the respondent was keen on proceeding further to set up the mw page civil appeal no. of -: :- power lant. it had therefore sought a declaration that the respondent was legally entitled to set up the power plant, and a direction to ppib to permit the respondent to start commercial operations. vide .. the single bench of the high court did not grant the prayers sought by the respondent save the one regarding the direction for the return of rs.,, received by ppib by encashing the pg furnished by the respondent. ppib was directed to return the said amount along with int erest at the prevailing bank rate with effect from ... the intra court appeal preferred by ppib etc. against the said judgment was dismissed by the division bench of the high court vide ... the said concurrent orders judgments have been assailed by ppib etc. in the instant appeal. learned counsel for the appellant, in reiteration of the pleadings in the appeal, submitted that a policy decision had been taken by the ecc only to allow those private power projects to proceed which had achieved financial close for a cumulative quantity of mw; that on .. ppib had informed respondent no. that the former had accepted financial close for projects with a cumulative capacity in excess of mw; that the respondent request for an extension in the deadline for achieving financial close was acceded to by ppib on .. by extending the validity period of los as well as the deadline for achieving financial close to ..; that the petitioner project was not included in the list of projects that had achieve financial close before the said cumulative capacity was reached; that the terms of the los had a contractual force and the high court, by directing ppib to return rs.,, along with interest to the respondent, amounted to rewriting the terms of the los; and that since the respondent had not achieved financial close either before page civil appeal no. of -: :- the said cumulative capacity was reached or within the validity period of the los, ppib was well within its rights to have encashed the pg. learned counsel for the appellant prayed for the appeal to be allowed and for the impugned ju dgment of the high court to be set aside. on the other hand, lear ned counsel for the respondent drew the attention of the court to a report on the respondent project, signed by the minister for water and power on .., and submitted that in the said report it is clearly mentioned that as per the ecc decision of july s. spencer power may be entitled to receive refund of their pg subject to the signing of deed of release. he further submitted that the said document was produced before the high court by ppib and its authenticity has not been questioned either in the grounds taken in the intra court appeal or the instant appeal; that the said document is be read with the cabinet division letter dated .. which contains the corrigendum to the ecc decision dated ..; that according to the said corrigendum, the pgs furnished by projects which held a valid los on .. be returned; that such return was to be in lieu of an agreement for the release of parties from all obligations under the implementation agreement, power purchase agreem ent and fuel supply agreement as well as a commitment not to pursue any legal claims, material or otherwise; that by allowing the respondent writ petition, the high court had not interfered with the contractual obligations arising under the los but had given effect to the decisions of the ecc. learned couns el for the respondent prayed for the appeal to be dismissed. we have heard the contentions of the learned counsel for the contesting parties and have perused the record with their able assistance. the facts leading to the filing of the instant appeal have page civil appeal no. of -: :- been set out in sufficient detail hereinabove and need not be recapitulated. article of the constitution empowers high courts to issue writs for the enforcement of fundamental rights and public duties. it has consistently been held that actions of the state, its instrumentality, any public authority or person whose actions bear insignia of public law element or public character are amenable to judicial review and the validity of such an action would be ested on the anvil of the provisions of the constitution and, in particular, the fundamental rights enshrined therein. however, when a dispute arises purely out of a contract, the courts have generally held that writ jurisdiction is not meant to settle private contractual rights, especially when an alternate civil remedy exists. while exercising the power under article of the constitution, the high court would be circumspect to adjudicate the disputes arising out of a contract depending on the facts and circumstances in a given case. after the state or its agents enter into he field of the ordinary contract, the relations are governed by the provisions of the contract which determines the rights and obligations of the parties inter se. in the present case the respondent, through its writ petition, sought an order compelling ppib to perform its contractual obligations arising from and related to the los. however, the high court did not direct ppib to allow the respondent to proceed with further steps toward achieving financial close for the establishment of the mw power plant. had the high court done so, it would have amounted to interference in a contractual dispute. the high court only allowed the respondent prayer for a direct ion requiring ppib to reimburse the amount realised upon encashment of the pg. what needs to be determined is whether such direction would amount to interference in a contractual dispute. page civil appeal no. of -: :- the ecc decision in its meeting dated .. to allow only those projects that achieved financial close up to a cumulative capacity of mw to move forward was taken to avert the generation of surplus electricity in the country. such surplus would have arisen if all projects that had been issued letters of support were allowed to achieve financial close and establish power plants exceeding that capacity. it is also not disputed that vide letter dated .., ppib had extended the validity of the los issued to the respondent to .. by which date the respondent was also required to achieve financial close. in the said letter it was explicitly mentioned that in the event the respondent does not achieve financial close by .. and other private power projects that have executed implementation agreement and having a cumulative capacity of mw achieve financial close before the respondent, the pg furnished by the respondent would be encashed and the los issued to the respondent would be cancelled without notice. vide letter dated .., ppib informed the respondent that the former had accepted financial close for projects with a cumulative capacity in excess of mw. the list of projects that had achieved financial close did not include that of the respon dent. term sheets for the foreign currency loans for the project were required to be approved by ppib prior to financial close. vide letter dated .., ppib informed the respondent that the term sheets submitted through respondent letter dated .. (which was delivered to ppib on ..) could not be approved as the respondent los was not valid. we are of the view that ppib stance in its letter dated .., that the los was not valid, cannot be reconciled with that in its letter dated .. whereby the validity of the los and the deadline for achieving page civil appeal no. of -: :- financial close were extended to ... however, in the said letter dated .., ppib also informed the respondent that financial close of private power projects with a cumulative capacity in excess of mw had been acknowledged and that it was on this basis that the respondent los was no longer valid. the list of such power projects (which is annexed at page of the instant appeal) does not contain the respondent name. what can be deduced from this is that the ppib position regarding invalidity of the respondent los is based on financial close for a cumulative capacity in excess of mw having been achieved by other private power projects before the respondent and not the respondent failure to achieve financial close by ... as mentioned in paragraph above, during the ecc meeting dated .., as proposal had been made by the ministry of water and power that the performance guarantees be returned to the sponsors without interest subject to an agreement that they would not pursue any claim against the government. in this meeting, it was decided that the matter be reviewed in consultation with the finance division and the law and it is the said decision dated .. that was modified and substituted through a corrigendum issued by the cabinet division on ... the corrigendum has already been reproduced in paragraph hereinabove. what can be dis cerned from the said corrigendum was that the ecc had decided that the pgs of the projects which held a valid los on .. be returned upon failing to achieve financial close on the due date. this return was to be in lieu of an agreement to release all parties from their obligations under the implementation agreement, power purchase agreement page civil appeal no. of -: :- and uel supply agreement and a commitment not to pursue any legal claims, material or otherwise. the document, on the basis of which the respondent writ petition was allowed by the high court, is a report on the respondent project, which was a part of the travaux préparatoires produced by ppib before the high court. learned counsel for the respondent is correct in his submission that the authenticity of this report, signed by the minister for water and power on .., has not been disputed by ppib in the rounds of appeal taken in the intra court appeal as well as in the instant appeal. this document shows that the ceiling of mw had been reached by private power projects before ... therefore, ppib refusal on .. to approve the term sheets sub mitte by the respondent well before the expiry of its los was solely because other power projects had achieved financial close for a cumulative limit of mw prior to the respondent. ppib decision set out in its letter dated .. not to approve the term sheets for the respondent foreign currency loans well before the deadline of .. for achieving financial close may have caused the minister to recognize the respondent entitlement to receive refund of their performance guarantee subject to signing of the release deed. since the approval of the respondent term sheets by ppib was mandatory before financial close could be declared, and since ppib, in its letter dated .., had taken the position that the respondent los was not valid, not because it had expired, but because other private power projects had achieved financial close for a cumulative capacity of mw, it cannot be held with certainty that the respondent would not have achieve financial close within the deadline of .. set in ppib letter dated ... by informing the respondent through letter dated .. that its page civil appeal no. of -: :- los was not valid, the respondent could not have been expected to take steps for achieving close thereafter. in such circumstances, we are of the view that the encashment of the respondent pg was most irrational and unreasonable in the wednersbury1 sense. under normal circumstances, as per the terms of the los, ppib was entitled to the encashment of the pg on the respondent failure to achieve financial close by the extended deadline of ... it is almost a month before such deadline that ppib through its letter dated .., informed the respondent that its los was no longer valid. ppib basis for taking this position was achievement of financial close for the cumulative capacity of mw by other private power projects, and not because the respondent had breached any prov ision of the los. ppib action of encashing the pg is to be judged in light of the ecc decision that the pgs furnished by private power projects that hold a valid los on .. would be returned on their failure to achieve financial close by the due dates, in addition to the report dated .. signed by the minister for water and power clearly providing that the respondent may be entitled to refund of the amount that was realized on encashment of its pg. the ecc decision to allow those private power projects to proceed further that achieve fin ancial close for a cumulative capacity of mw is dehors the power policy or the terms of the los. the writ issued by the high court effectively directed the appellant to honour their own commitments i.e. the decisions recorded in the ecc meetings held on .. and .., read together with the corrigendum contained in the cabinet division letter dated .. and the report dated ... in other words, by allowing the respondent writ associated provincial picture houses ltd. wednesbury corporation kb page civil appeal no. of -: :- petition, the high court has given effect to the decisions of the ecc and has not interfered with the contractual obligations arising under the los. in the premises aforestated, we are of the opinion that the appeal has no merit and is consequently dismissed. the 2nd october, approved for reporting sanaullah