page in the supreme court of pakistan (appellate jurisdiction) present: cj of against .. of the islamabad high court, islamabad passed in writ petition no. farzana yasmeen and others. petitioner sohail ahmed and another. respondent for the petitioner s: asc. syed rifaqat hussain shah, aor. respondent no.: in-person. date of hearing: ... judgment muhammad shafi siddiqui, .. the islamabad high court, islamabad, whereby writ petition filed by the petitioner was dismissed. facts necessary for the disposal of the lis are that petitioner filed a suit for recovery of maintenance, dowry article and gold ornaments against respondent no., whereas, respondent no. filed a suit for restitution of conjugal rights against petitioner no.. both the suits were consolidated and consolidated issues were framed and after recording evidence vide judgment and decree dated .. the family court, islamabad the suit of the petitioner was partially decreed, whereas, the sui of the respondent no. was decreed. page civil petition no. of feeling aggrieved by the said judgment and decree, respondent no. filed an appeal before the additional district and sessions judge, islamabad, appellate court ), who vide .. accepted the appeal and set aside the judgment and decree dated .., which had partially decreed the suit of the petitioners. being dissatisfied with the said order, petitioner filed a writ petition before the islamabad high court, islamabad and the same was dismissed vide impugned .. (as stated above), hence the instant leave to appeal. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and respondent no., who is present in -person, and perused the material available on record. two suits were filed before the trial court; the first being suit for recovery of maintenance, dowry articles and gold ornaments, which is filed by the petitioners, within the local limits of police station lohibher, district islamabad where she was living at the time of filing suit, whereas, the other suit was for restitution of conjugal rights filed by the respondent no. before the same court. the two suits were then consolidated and were disposed of by a common judgment by the trial court. the judgment was passed after framing of issues and recording of evidence by the parties. on the basis of the pleadings of the parties, the following consolidated issue were framed and there was no exception to such framing of issues: whether the plaintiff are entitled for recovery of maintenance allowance as prayed for? if yes then at what rate and for which period? opp whether the plaintiff no. is entitled for recovery of dowry articles or its alternate value as prayed for? opp whether the plaintiff no. is entitled for recovery of gold ornaments weighing tolas and its alternate value as prayed for? opp whether the plaintiff no. is entitled for recovery of personal documents as prayed for? opp whether the defendant is entitled for decree of restitution of conjugal rights as prayed for? opd whether the suit of plaintiff is false and is liable to be dismissed? opd page civil petition no. of relief. there was no issue framed as to the territorial jurisdiction of the trial court in respect of claim of petitioner in the shape of suit no. d- the respondent no. was aggrieved by the consolidated judgment and decree, which judgment ha partly decreed the suit of the petitioners. the respondent no. then preferred an appeal as family appeal no. the memo of appeal at page of the paper -book does not disclose any ground in respect of territorial jurisdiction of the trial court in respect of claim of the petitioner with regard to maintenance, dowry articles and gold ornaments. while hearing the appeal, in terms of paragraph the appellate court noted a point of territorial jurisdiction which was neither pleaded nor taken in the memo of appeal, yet the appellate court found it worth consideri ng. the appellate court then, in view of the territorial jurisdiction, set aside the judgment of the trial court in respect of the suit of the petitioner and ordered to return the plaint. aggrieved of the judgment of the appellate court, the petitioner preferred writ petition before the islamabad high court, which did not disturb the findings of the appellate court, hence this leave to appeal. the primary question as raised in the instant petition is whether the appellate court could reverse the findings of the trial court on account of territorial jurisdiction having not been taken by the trial court and having not been considered worth of framing issues either by court and or parties. nothing agitat ed at the time of recording of evidence. the question of territorial jurisdiction was not even raised in the memo of appeal. notwithstanding the fact that rule of the west pakistan family courts page civil petition no. of rules, does not identify the nature of suit to be filed by the petitioner before the court where she was currently residing, yet it was never challenged in the form of preliminary objection which has resulted in the non-framing of issue and conclusion of trial. although the family court has decided the suit on its own procedure but so far as the territorial jurisdiction is concerned, that is, primary and subs tantially covered by section of the code of civil procedure, which provides that a par ty would not be allowed to object as to the place of suing at the appellate or revisional court unless such objection was taken in the court of first instance at the earliest possible opportunity and in all cases where issues are settled at or before such settlement and unless there has been a consequent failure of justice. objections to territorial and pecuniary jurisdiction must be raised at the earliest stage before or at the time of settlement of issues. raising it at a later stage was considered highly prejudicial and contrary to justice. so, once the case has proceeded and judgment is given, a defect in territorial or pecuniary jurisdiction is then treated as only a technical error. it is significant to note that section of c.p.c. provides that an objection as, to the place of suing shall not be allowed by any app ellate or revisional court unless there was a consequent failure of justice the suit was contested by respondent and after trial judgment was announced on merit; it caused no prejudice insofar as territorial jurisdiction is concerned. it ought to have been resisted and agitated at the earliest. the principle is that if an issue, to the extent of jurisdiction of a court or tribunal is not framed in the court of first instance it cannot be raised as point for consideration. indeed the suit khan muhammad tareen v. nasir and brother coal company scmr faqir muhammad v. pakistan scmr chief engineer, hydel (north) and project director, wapda v. zafarullah shah scmr page civil petition no. of of petitioner is neither for dissolution of marriage nor for dower, infact, it was for maintenance, dowry articles and gold ornaments, which class of claim does not fall in the proviso to rule of rules of and would have been filed where cause of ac tion wholly or in part arisen and or where parties last resided together. however, the trial was allowed to be concluded without an issue of territorial jurisdiction being pressed by respondent. in the light of the above discussion, it would be unfair to non -suit the petitioner after complete trial, i.e., filing of plaint, written statement, framing of issues, recording of evidence and then allowing the parties to assist the court; more particularly when the issue of territorial jurisdiction was not pressed before the trial court nor raised in the memo of appeal, hence petitioner cannot be non -suited, at the appellate stage. on the aforesaid questions of law, this petition is converted into an appeal and the same is allowed by setting aside the impugned judgment. the matter is remanded back to the appellate court for decision afresh on merits in terms of the evidence recorded before the trial court. chief .. approved for reporting