page in the supreme court of pakistan (appellate jurisdiction) present malik cr.p.l.a. no. of on appeal from the .., the lahore high court in crl.misc.no. manan ali and others petitioner the state through prosecutor general punjab and another respondent for the petitioner s: asc aor (along with all petitioners) for the state mirza abid majeeed, dpg, punjab along with rashid bilal, asi for the complainant: (in person date of hearing: .. order muhammad ali mazhar, j: this criminal leave to appeal is directed against the .., the lahore high court in crl.misc no. -b whereby, the ad- interim bail granted to the petitioner was recalled and the application for pre -arrest bail was dismissed. the record shows that this petition is barred by days. an application for condonation of delay crl.m.a. no. has also been filed along with the petition. in the interest of crl.m.a. no. is allowed and the delay is condoned. according to the prosecution case, a ll the petitioner (manan ali liaquat ali, arslan ansar muhammad ansar, majid riaz page crl.p.no. -- muhammad riaz, and syed taskeen haider shah syed tanveer haider shah) are nominated in fir no., dated .., lodged at police station sadar kharian, gujrat, under sections -a(i), -f(i), -l(), -f(v), -f(vi), and of the pakistan penal code, ppc ). the allegations against the petitioner are that they, along with other co- accused persons, while armed with pistols and dandas (club baton s), assembled and interc epted the complainant and attacked him. the petitioner have been assigned different roles, with specific injuries allegedly caused by them, such as gunshots and blows with a danda club, being attributed to the complainant party. the prosecution witnesses, in their statements under section of the code of criminal procedure, cr.p.c. ), fully supported the complainant version. concurrently, a cross version of khurram hayat was recorded on the same day and time, against the complainant in fir no. and his accomplices for the offences under (ii), 337a (i), 337f (iv), and pp c. according to the cross version of khurram hayat, he was going to his school ground on his motor bike to play cricket on .., approximately at pm, and hen he reached near the house of muhammad yousuf, the accused persons (names of whom are mentioned in the cross version) attacked him. they were armed with clubs and an axe, and inflict ed injuries upon different parts of his body. upon hearing his hue and cry, abdul mannan and arsalan muhammad ansar, reached the scene, and when the accused persons saw them, they fled away while issuing death threats to khurram hayat. the learned counsel for the petition ers argued that the petitioner have no previous criminal record and they have been implicated in the instant case with mala fide intention due to previous litigation and enmity. he further argued that the cross version on part of the petitioner has already been registered in the same matter and the high court has failed to consider that the case require further inquiry to prove guilt. it was further averred that the registration of the fir and the nature of the allegations are based on personal grudges and rivalry. he further argued that ad-interim pre -arrest bail was granted to the petitioner by the high court vide .., but vide .., the bail was recalled without the arguments of the petitioners' counsel being page crl.p.no. -- heard, thus the etitioners were condemned unheard. it was further argued that the high court even failed to consider the effect of cross version. though the learned dpg, punjab, with the assistance of rashid bilal, asi, opposed the bail petition, they could not deny that it is a matter of cross version, and at this stage it is not possible to determine whose version is true and correct to establish culpability. as far as the complainant is concerned, he also opposed the bail petition, but could not controvert the recording of the cross version. heard the arguments. it is a matter of record that the incid ent occurred on .. at pm and was reported by the complainant of fir no. on .. at pm, and the cross version of khurram hayat arising out of the same incident was also recorded on .. at pm vide serial no. in fact, the cases encompassing the "cross versions" recorded for one and the same incident articulate conflicting and distinct account s. the crucial question required to be tentatively assessed by the court is whether there are reasonable grounds to believe that the accused has committed the offenc or not. though in a cross version case, the bail cannot be claimed as of right, but if the cross version raises reasonable scepticism vis-à-vis the guilt of an accused, the court may grant bail under section () of the cr.p.c., on the ground that such case requires further inquiry to unearth the truth and ascertain who acted in aggression and who acted in self-defence. in the aftermath of a cross version, the role of the parties can be reversed, wherein the accused becomes the complainant and the complainant becomes the accused. in the literal sense, the aggressor is the party accused of initiating the violent or criminal act, whereas the person who claims to have been aggressed upon lodges the cross version to divulge his narrative and dislodge the allegations. at this stage, where the cross version of parties is available on record, it is not clear who aggressed and who was aggressed upon, so in all fairness, the case requires further inquiry, and without recording evidence, guilt cannot be proved. it is a well -settled exposition of law that the quintessence of further inquiry must have linkage with the outcome of the case for which a tentative estimation of the material on record is to be mulled over. the case of further inquiry presupposes a tentative assessment page crl.p.no. -- which may create doubt with respect to the involvement of the accused in the crime. the rosecution, in order to make out a case for refusal of bail to an accused, is primarily supposed to place on record material on the basis of which he is believed to be involved in a non -bailable offence, but in absence of such material, the court, for the purpose of releasing the accused on bail, instead of dilating upon the facts of the case in detail, can dispose of the matter by holding that his detention is unjustified or unreasonable. it is well settled that deeper appreciation of evidence is not permissible at the bail stage. imultaneously, it is also well settled that the object of trial is to make an accused face the trial, not to punish an under trial prisoner. the investigation officer is present in court and submits that the challan has already been submitted in the trial court. let the charge be framed by the trial court, and we expect that the trial will be conducted expeditiously. as a result of above discussion, this criminal petition is converted into a appeal and allowed; the ad-interim pre-arrest bail granted to the present petitioner by this court vide is hereby confirmed on the same terms and conditions. we are sanguine that the learned trial court shall conclude the trial expeditiously and if the petitioner misuse or abuse the concession of bail or do not cooperate in the investigation and the trial, the complainant or the prosecution may move an application for cancellation of bail and the learned trial court may be at liberty to cancel the bail. the observati ons made in this bail order are tentative in nature and shall not prejudice the case of either party in the trial. .. khalid not approved for reporting