page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan. c.p.l.a no. chief judge. judge. officer commanding pe troleum storage platoon army service juglot gilgit. fcna thr ough supply and transport branc head quarter fcna jutial gilgit. petitioner defendant ali muhammad mirza ali sikanderabad nagar. respondent plaintiff deputy commissioner collector gilgi t. assistant commissioner assistant collector 1st grade recovery magistrate gilgit. proforma -respondent s. application for grant of leave to the judgment decdree da ted --, the hon,ble chief court gilgit, wehreby the revision petition of the respondent no. has been accepted and setting aside the judgment decree dated --, the civil --, district present: advocate general gilgit -baltistan. date of hearing: --. judgment: .this leave to appeal has een preferred by the petitioner defendant against the impugned --, the learned single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan, whereby the learned single bench has acce pted the revision petition filed by the respondent (muhammad ali mirza ali) by setting aside the concurrent findings of lower courts below and page also decla red the proceedings before resp ondent no. as null void. hence this leave to appeal. the background of the li tigation as narrated by the parties are, that the respo ndents no. and issued letter bearing no. () dated --, no.j dated --, to plaintiff respondent no. for recover of rs.,, -(one lac eighteen thousand nine hundred ninety seven as arrears of land revenue and to deposit the same in government treasury. fe eling aggrieved with the above quoted letters the plaintiff respondent no. filed the present suit on the ground that the amo unt shown by the petitioner is not recover able as arrears of land revenue, as the provincial government of no rthern areas did not duly declared through notification the alleged dues as arrears of land revenue. he further narrated in the plaint that the ex ecutive orders for recovery of dues issued by respondent no. and are without jurisdiction. it has been further mentioned in the plaint that plaintiff respondent no. is being harassed by respondent no. on he instance of other defendants. present petit ioners and respondent no. and are without justification and lawful authority bent upon forcibly extracting rs., (one lac eighteen thousand nine hundred ninety seven from plaintiff respondent no.. he further prayed for declaration with permane nt injunction to the effect that the respondent no. and are not entitled to recover any amount from respondent no., therefore be permanently restraine from demanding the suit amount. on the other hand the petit ioner defendant strongly contested the suit and denied the claim of the plaintiff with the submission that the plaintiff respondent no. is a government contractor, enter into a page contract with the present petitioners, as per requirements of the contract agreement, he is liable to ake good the losses sustained by the government. in fact plaintiff has fail ed to account for the material and after inquiry under the terms of agreement loss statement of rs.,, one lac eighte en thousand nine hundred ninety seven has been raised against th plaintiff respondent no.. respondent no. and are empowered to recover the dues as arrears of land revenue. plaintiff has no cause of action, therefore, the suit being merit less and non maintainable. in the light of the pleadings of he parties the trial court framed few issues without applying its mind towards the main and core issues involved in the present case. however, the trial court has provided fair opportunity to adduce evidence to the plaintiff in proof of his claim, while th learned trial court proceeded ex -parte against defendant vide --. plaintiff respondent no. did not produce oral evidence and relied on documentary evidence vide exh -p to exh -p that on -- the learned civil plaintiff, by declaring it as merit less and non maintainable. whereas, on -- the learned district --. feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied from the judgment of both the learned lower courts the respondent no. filed a revision petition before honorable chief court gilgit -baltistan, whereby the learned single bench of the chief court gilgit -baltistan, accepted the revision petition filed by respondent no. plaintiff and set aside the concurrent findings of the lower courts by declaring the recovery proceedings as page null void initiated respondent no. and hence, this leave to appeal. we hav carefully attended the arguments of learned counsel for both side at length and have perused the available record with due care and caution, we found that the learned single bench of chief court has failed to exercise its jurisdiction so vested in it on the following grounds: both the learned lower courts including the single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan have failed to apply its mind towards framing of important and necessary issue regarding the jurisdiction exercised by resp ondent no. in law those findings of the courts which are given without framing issues have no legal sanctity at all. the same pattern has been applied in the present case. resul tantly, findings of the lo wer courts below shall not intact on the filed. however, it is an admitted fact that the learned single bench of chie court gilgit baltistan, has well interpreted the releva nt laws but its all efforts may not be considered legally without framing of core issues i.e. whether the (deputy commissioner respondent no., is legally empo wered to recover the alleged amount of rs., (one lac eighteen thousand nine hundred ninety seven only) as arrears of land revenue? whereas the second most important and necessary issue is whether the government duly notified and declare the al leged dues, as arrears of land revenue? likewise the third and core issue is whether respondent no. can exercise its jurisdiction as recovery magistrate? these important and material question should be solved in first round of litigation but unfortunately it has not been done so. it is undisputed that the ivil courts under section c.p.c enjoys ample of page jurisdiction to try suits, but it needs determination here that whether the instant case has been disposed of by us ing jurisdiction so vested or not. it gives us pain to observe, that learned counsel for both the parties did not properly assisted the courts below, therefore, all the orders, judgments impugned herein, are unfortunately perfunctory giving the impressi on of hasty off hand decisions, which are not only incorrect in their results but also deficient in their contents. litigants who bring their dis putes to the law courts with incidental hardships and expenses involved, do expect a patent and judicious treatment of thei cases and their determination by proper orders. a judicial order must be a speaking order shall manifest that the court has applied her mind to the resolution of the issues involved for their roper adjudication and the ultimat result may be arrived at by a laborious effort, but it has not been done in the instant case. although it is pertinent to mention here that in appeal able cases findings should be given after framing issues, even though it may be unnecess ary to decide some for the purpose of the decision arrived at. but the learned lower courts below have failed to frame important and necessary issue regarding jurisdiction of respondent no. the universally recognized principle of law to frame issues and followed by judgment based on discuss ing each and every issue in detail but the learned lower courts have violated the above narrated universally recognized principle of law. testing the entire proceedings of the case on the touch st one of procedural law the ultim ate result would be that the entire exercise undertaken by the courts was with out framing of necessary and important issues and mere abuse of process of law. page consequent upon what has been discussed above, we have come to the conclusion that it is a fit case for remand, therefore, we set aside the impugned judgment decree dated --, the learned single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan and the case is returned back to the trial court with the directio to decide the question of jurisdiction in the matter after framing of necessary issue s. the short --, is reproduced herein is treated as part of this judgment. for the reason to be recorded later he case is returned back to the civil court for framing of the issues relating to the jurisdiction of deputy commissioner and the decision afresh in accordance with law. this petition is converted into appeal and allowed in the above terms with no orders a to costs petition is converted into appeal and allowed. announced -- chief page the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan subject: request for provision of stationery items for bran ch respected sir, we have the honor to submit that the following stationary items are required for branch. the same may kindly be provided enabling us to smooth running the office work and oblige. s.no. name of items quantity required. computer paper legal rim gum tick nos file board dozen ball points dozen ink black nos ad nos high lighter nos file dozen paper pin packet paper clip packet table alenda nos thermos no. not approved tag packet table diary nos punch machin no staple pin packet p.s. to judge -i p.s. to judge -ii s.a.c. gilgit -baltistan s.a.c. gilgit -baltistan