page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla. no. pak china sost port company etc petitioners. zafar iqbal others respondents. present: rehmat ali advocate -on-record on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in jud. misc. no. the learned chief court whereby the appeal filed by the respondent no. was accep ted with the direction to windup the pak china joint venture sost dry port company (pvt) ltd by appointing hajji mirza ali, senior advocate sac and the said liquidators were also directed to take into their possession all assets moveable, immoveable, the books of accounts and other registers record of the company and will proceed with the liquidation, thereof according to law. the page petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the impugned judgment, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal. consequently, notices were issued to the respondent and the case was finally heard on .. briefly the facts of the case are that the respondent no. namely zafar iqbal chairman silk rout dry port trust resident of pusso gojal upper hunza filed a petition i.e. jud. misc. no. in the learned chief court under section and of the company ordinance for winding up of pak -china sost dry port joint stock company (pvt) limited. the respondent filed the said petition with the contention that his company was entered into a contract with the one xin jian jiuling transport and storage private limited in the year which was stretched over for a period of years and the said agreement was likely to come to an end in the year both the companies were properly integrated by respondent no. on .. with the nomenc lature pak -china joint venture sost dry port company (pvt) limited per averments of the respondent no. the said company has to be expired in the year as neither a new agreement was signed nor the same has been extended by the respective parties by virtue of mutual understanding. moreover, the petitioner failed to submit statuary reports to the registrar joint stock companies with regard to convene the annual general meetings despite the facts that he has been intimated to do which is the sheer violation of page article of the companies ordinance, as per the contentions of the respondent no.. in this regard a unanimous resolution the general body recommending to close the business activities between respective parties. the perusal of the record of the case transpires that the petitioner filed civil misc. no. in the learned chief court by submitting an application under section of the companies ordinance contending therein that the affairs of the said companies were not being run in line with the provisions of section of said ordinance. it was also contended in the said application that the directors of the company in question are holding their possession unlawfully and illegally instead of the fact that the term of the said director has already been expired as per the agreement held on ... the said application so filed by the respondent no. was disposed off by the learned chief court on .. by observing that: quote. in the light of above discussion the registrar joint stock companies gilgit -baltistan is directed to convene the board meeting of joint company within one month of this order unquote. the petitioner contested the petition in the learned chief court as well as in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan by filing cpla. no. which was disposed off by apex court of gilgit -baltistan declaring the same as meritless. conversely, the petitioner controverted the contentions of the responden ts with the page plea that the said agreement has been extended up to and the meetings of the board of directors have been convening from time to time as per the agreement and spirit of the said ordinance. they mainly contested the said petition on the gro und of maintainability and locus standi. per version of the petitioner the learned chief court has no jurisdiction to hear and decide the petition so filed by the respondent no. the dispute between the parties should have been referred to the securiti es and exchange commission of pakistan (secp) for its adjudication in line with the relevant provisions of the said ordinance. the learned chief court upon hearing, allowed the said petition with the aforementioned directions. the petitioner being aggriev ed filed this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner and respondent no. executed a contract of cooperative business operation as a joint venture and the said joint venture was executed between the parties on agreed and specified terms. he further submits that the said joint venture was subsequently extended vide resolution the 7th board meeting of pak china sost dry port company private limited. as per chapter the term tenure of this joint venture was for years, commencing its joint operation w.e.f .., which meant that it was extended up to he also submits that in case of any dispute between the parties the dispute would be resolved through arbitration as provided in chapter and under page article in the said agreement which was endorsed by the respondent no. per learned counsel the civil courts have no jurisdiction to entertain the matter. he further submits tha the said contract was registered with the respondent no. the registrar joint stock company at gilgit. he submits that the proper forum for adjudication with regard to the subject matter was security and exchange commission of pakistan (secp) not the lea rned gilgit baltistan chief court. he further submits that there was no time mentioned for winding up of the company under section of the company ordinance as the terms of the agreement have been extended up to the learned counsel for the petitio ners contends that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court fell in error in exercising the jurisdiction for winding up the company which was not so vested in it. he finally submits that the impugned .. in jud. misc. no. passe by the learned chief court is not sustainable being the result of misconception of law and misreading non -appreciation of facts of the case. he prays that the said impugned judgment may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned .. in jud. misc. no. the learned chief court. he contends that the petitioner did not comply the orders the learned chief court in the 8th meeting of board of directors held on ... he also contends that some decisions were made and it was decided that 9th meeting of board of directors will be held page within days but the petitioner instead of holding the meeting resorted to this apex court by filing cpla. no. which was disposed off on .. being meritless. per learned counsel the said judgment is exhaustive in nature and it covers all the material points involved which shows the malafidies of the petitioner and the petitioner are pla ying the game of hide and seek, instead of acting in accordance the original agreements. he contends that the jud. misc. no. of the respondent has rightly been accepted by the learned chief court which according to him is well reasoned and well fou nded being passed in accordance with law. he prays that the impugned .. in jud. misc. no. the learned chief court may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for respective parties are at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in jud. misc. no. the learned chief court. we have also perused the contents of the agreement executed between the parties thoroughly. the perusa of the said agreement reveals that it was applicable for a period of years commencing from to there is nothing on record that either the same agreement was executed afresh with the mutual consent of the petitioner and respondent nor the revious agreement was extended through mutual understanding. furthermore, the parties unanimously passed the resolution dated .. wherein it was agreed by page them to windup the joint venture company as the petitioner failed to run the company in que stion by convening annual general meetings (agms) and submitting statuary reports etc to the registrar of joint stock companies in accordance with section of the companies ordinance, the aforesaid violation on part of the petitioner creates cause of action to file the petition in the learned chief court for its indulgence to hear and decide the matter and to pass the impugned ... in our considered view, the learned chief court has rightly entertained and passed the said impugned judgment which is well reasoned and well founded. no interference is warranted into it. in view of the above discussions, we dismissed this appeal vide our short ... consequently, the impugned .. in jud. misc. no. the learned chief court was maintained vide the said short order. the petitioners, however, may approach any legal forum for redressal of their grievances, if they so advised. these were the reasons of the said hort order. the appeal was dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?