page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla.no. president al -sabah multipurpose society gupis office punial road gilgit. ex- hav: adina shah nigahban shah. ex-subedar ziarat shah sher thanat shah handrap gupis. sher murad arrak khan. tatto khan farman baig yasin presently at gilgit. petitioner s. zar nazir khan doulat khan ex principal inter college gahkuch phander presently at gahkuch district ghizer. respondent. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, read with relevant article gilgit baltistan supreme appellate court rules against the impugned judgment .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in civil revision misc no. whereby restoration readmissio application filed by petitioner against the ex -parte dismissal of revision no. has been dismissed. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. johar ali khan advocate -on-record on behalf of the respondent. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition has been arisen out of the impugned judgment .. in civil revision misc no. the page learned chief court, whereby the petition of the petitioner was dismissed on the basis of non -appearance of the petitioner on account of verification of the affidavit, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent for his appearance and the case was heard today on ... the brief facts of the petition are that the respondent plaintiff filed civil suit no. in the court of learned civil by the respondent and subsequently the said property was sold to petitioner no. by the petitioner no. through two () separate transaction. upon hearing the suit of the respondent plaintiff was decreed vide .. by the learned civil the present petitioner being aggrieved by and dissat isfied with the said judgment filed cfa no. before the learned additional district wherein the civil first appeal of the petitioner was dismissed vide .. while maintaining the judgment of the learned civil judg gilgit. the petitioner being aggrieved filed civil revision no. before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. during the pendency of the said civil revision an application no. was filed which upon hearing was dismissed in default on the ground of non -prosecution vide .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. page -sabah multipurpose cooperative society having its office at punial road gilgit. he further submits that the respondent no. sold out a piece of land measuring two () kanal situated at soni kot khari under khasra no. at the rate of rs. per kanal to petitioner no. which was subsequently sold out to the petitioner no. in the year vide sale agreement dated ... he submits that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court while hearing the civil misc application no. in civil revision no. had wrongly dismissed the revision of the petitioner on the ground of non -prosecution despite the fact that the petitioner no. was present in the court and an affidavit duly signed by the petitioner no. was also produced before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court did not apply its judicial mind and passed the impugned .., hence, the same is not tenable and liable to be set aside being the result misconception of law. he finally submits that the said impugned judgment order of the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court may very graciously be set aside to meet the ends of justice. on the other hand, -baltistan chief court has rightly dismissed the civil misc application no. page in civil revision filed by the petitioners. the petitioner had been given sufficient opportunities to ensure their presence before the court and defend their case but they had miserably failed to prosecute their case. he finally contends that the impugned judgment order the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is well reasoned and well founded, hence, no interference is warranted into it in the interest of we have heard both the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned judgment .. in civil misc no. in civil revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgments the courts below. in view of the above discussions we without going into the merit of the case are inclined to convert this petition into an appeal and the same is conditionally allowed subject to the payment of rs. (rupees fifty thousand only) as cost to be paid to the respondent within a period of fifteen () days positively. the case i remanded back to the learned chief court to hear and decide the same afresh on its own merits and dispose of in accordance with law. consequently, the impugned .. in civil misc.no. the learned chief court is set asid e. page the appeal is conditionally allowed and the same is disposed off in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?