page before the supreme appellate court gilgit –baltistan, gilgit mr., judge. mr., judge. c. misc. no. in cpla.no. provincial government throuhg chief secretary gilgit –baltistan collector district astore. assistant commissioner baltistan. secretary works gilgit –baltistan. superintending engineer astore. executive engineer napwd astore. petitioners. sajid ullah sher muhammad. muhammad nazim. gul sana. shah sayar sons of juma khan. kousar hayat azmat khan. gul zaman pakhtoon ali gorikote tehsil astor e. respondent plaintiffs. leave to appeal under article of gilgit baltistan (empowerment self governan ce) order against the impugend .. passedby learned chief court gilgit–baltistan in cfa no. wherbey appeal of the petitioner has been dismissed and impugend judgment decree dated -- land acquisition has been maintained. page present: advocate general, gilgit baltistan on behalf of the petitioners. advocate on record. date of hearing: ---. judgment javed iqbal, .. through civil petition no. the petition ers through advocate general eeks leave to the --, the learned di vision bench chief court gilgit –baltistan, whereby civil 1st appeal no. of the petition ers was dismissed. before facts are that the above petitioner got acquired the land for construction of civil cou rt and residential quarters houses in sub division shounter. the land in question was initially acquired from pakora dass in later the project was shifted to gorikot astore in the year on the basis of enhancement through civil reference objection under section of land ac quisition act, before refere judge, district astore on --, holding that the respondent obj ectors are entitled to receive compensation on the prevailing rates of rs. -(three lac page only) per kanal plus compulsory charges with interest at the rate of compound interest per annum. present pe titioners filed their written reply refu ting th claim of present respondent objectors before starting the development scheme notice to persons interested in the case were issued under section land acquisition act vide notification dated --, subsequently notices followed thereof and final notice under section was issued on -- and fulfilled all the mandatory provisions of land acquistion act. in the light of pleadings issues have been framed by the referee judge. parties of suit produced their respective evidence pro and contra, ultimately the referee court passed a decree in favour of present respondent felling aggrieved by the judgment the etitioners filed civil 1st appeal before the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan the learned chief court upholding the judgment of referee court and dismissed the appeal of the petit ioners. hence this leave to appeal. we have carefully examined the contentions as agitated on behalf of the petitioner by the lea rned advocate general gilgit baltistan, in the light of relevant provisions of law and record of the case. moreover page the concurrent judgments learned division bench and referee has been perused with care and caution. the entire documentary evidence also been thrashed out with arguments advanced by the learned advocate general. it has been also observed by this court, that, all notice were issued in the year for land situated in pakora dass and scheme has been shifted to gorikot. the prese nt petitioner in the year have completed the acquisition proceedings, without giving fresh notice under section of land acquisition act. hence the pr esent petitioner clearly violate the mandatory provisions of land acquisition act. what we have observed from available record, is that the award dated -- has been prepared on old rates of compensation, and the notices under sections (), --a, a, and notice under section land acquisition act, would reveals that present petitioner have done nothing after issuance of notice under section in the year to in the year the petitioner have acted in hurry to acqu ired the land without proportionate the shares of respondents, this has been confirmed by the petitioner representative. page we also observed that notice served by collector under land acquisition, are general notices, in which no specific names are mentioned of owners. moreover, the representative of petitioner during cross examination confirmed that enhanced up to rs. ,, three lac only per kanal in the year the present petitioner have badly failed to challenge this admission before the eferee judge. for what has been discussed above, we have not been able to find out any substantial grounds or reasons for interference in the judgment of chief court, gilgit -baltistan and referee court, and consequently dismissed this petition. leave to appeal refused. petition dismissed