page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. zaidullah respondent. present: the advocate general alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. -on-record for respondent. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the said writ petition filed by the respondent was allowed. being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, the petitioner filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the instant proceedings are that the respondent was initially appointed as teacher bps in high school oshikandas, gilgit. later on, he was granted bps against the post of tgt bps in the same school vide office order no. sec-edu-( dated ... on .., gugts were promoted as tgts as per seniority list and due to his ante date promotion -e-f .. i.e. from the date of his induction page in the education department his seniority has been restored. the name of the respondent has been included in the seniority list of gugt bps at serial no. the respondent got eligibility for promotion to bps -e-f .. as gugts bps on the basis of the said ante date seniority list. on .., the respondent ubmitted department appeal before the competent authority for his promotion to bps -. the petitioner no. i.e. director education (academics) sent working papers to petitioner no. i.e. the secretary education gilgit -baltistan on ... the petit ioner no. did not consider the department appeal of the respondent and held the departmental appeal in pending since .. to ... during the pendency of the said department appeal of the respondent, the petitioner no. to promoted the other candidates. on .., the petitioner no. i.e. section officer education department gilgit -baltistan vide officer order no. sec -edu-() granted seniority to the respondent in bps -e-f .. alongwith his promotion with consequent financial benefits. the petitioner in pretext of audit restrictions denied the promotion of the respondent with retrospective effect from ... the respondent being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed writ petition no. in th learned chief court. upon hearing the learned chief court accepted the said writ petition vide impugned ... the petitioner feeling aggrieved, filed this leave to appeal. page the learned advocate general submits that the respondent was initially appointed as teacher bps in high school oshikandas gilgit but the he directly approached home services department on the basis of qualification of fa ct. he also submits that the home and services department without takin into consideration the fact that there were already many other senior teachers waiting for promotion in the next grade of bps -, promoted the respondent in bps which was irregular and unjustified. per learned advocate general, the respondent was much junior and he had no vested right of promotion to bps by passing senior eligible teachers. he submits that the respondent due to ante date promotion claimed further promotion in bps resultantly he was granted promotion in bps with effect from ... this promotion was issued without financial back benefits due to the said pre -mature and illegal promotion order of services department. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error while accepting the writ petition of the respondent vid impugned ... he submits that the said impugned judgment is the result of misreading non -reading of the facts of the case and the same is not sustainable. he prays that the said impugned judgment may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, the learned advocate -on-record for the respondent supports the impugned judgment the learned chief court. he contends that the learned chief court has rightly accepted the writ page petition filed by the respon dent vide impugned ... he prays that the said impugned judgment may pleased be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on reco rd and gone through the impugned judgment the learned chief court. admittedly, the petitioner have discriminated the respondent by depriving him from his legal right of promotion on the pretext of audit restrictions. the respondent may be treated equally among equals and he as right to claim the ante date seniority. in our considered view, the impugned .. the learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded, hence, no interference into it is warran ted. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal i dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.