page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. cpla no. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. provincial government through chief secretary gb. the secretary food gilgit -baltistan. the director food gilgit -baltistan. civil supply officer diamer chillas. petitioner appellants. fiaz ahmed abdullah khan goner farm district diamer. respondent petitioner. abdul jahan abdul qayyum acsi (bps -) civil supply officer chillas. proforma respondent. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, against the impugned judgment orde dated .. chief court gilgit -baltistan in writ petition no. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the petitioners. page dated of hearing: --. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim,, cj .the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan contends that the food and agriculture department, government of gilgit -baltistan advertised various posts on .. including posts of assistant civil supply inspectors acsi) bps and only one post was filled in and one muhammad yaqoob sair ali was selected after taking test interview as he got first position as per merit list. subsequently, more posts of assistant civil supply inspector bps- were created sanctioned. the respondent no. abdul jahan was selected against one of the said posts. he further submits that the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan by following an out dated analogy of selection allowed the petition filed by the respondent no. vide wri petition no. on .. and directed the appellant to appoint him for the post applied for as he got 2nd position in the merit list. while accepting the petition and passing the following order setting the things correct: (a). respondent no. to are directed to issue pass office order appointing petitioner with effect from 1st page september (.. against the posts of acsi bps in the department of respondent no. to (b). petitioner be placed aft er muhammad yaqoob in the seniority list of acsi bps of the department of respondent no. to (c) respondent no. to pay arrears of full pay with allowance to the petitioner with effect from against the post of acsi bps -. (d) respondent no. to to submit their compliance report of above order within one month from today, failing which to show cause that why they should not be proceeded for violating merit in making appointments in iolation of the merit list referred in the petition and also for none compliance of this order. the learned advocate general further submits that the .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan based on misconception and on an out dated analogy of selection and the same is liable to set aside. page on the other hand, (b ps-) were not admittedly advertised in the newspapers and against one of those posts one abdul jahan abdul qayoom has been selected appointed by the appellant secretly as he got 3rd position in the test interview, whereas, the respondent no. fiaz a hmed abdullah khan was ignored inspite of the fact that he got 2nd position in the test interview as per merit list. he was ignored by the appellant for the best reason known to them, which is contrary to the fundamental rights guaranteed under articl e-() of gilgit -baltistan (self empowerment and governance) order, as well as the enabling articles of the constitution of islamic republic of pakistan. he further contended that the respondent no. has preferential right over the respondent no. fo the appointment for one of the said two vacant posts as per final merit list, which is against principle of natural he further submits that the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan appearing on behalf of the petitioner could not find out any infirmity and illegality in the impugned .. in writ petition no. page the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan and prayed that the same be maintained in its letters and spirits. we heard the learned couns el for the parties, perused that material and record and agree with the contention raised by the petition is converted into an appeal and partially allowed with the modification that the respondent no. be appointed as assistant civil supply inspector (bps -) with prospective effect i.e. from the date of issuance of his appointment letter by the office of respondent no. thereto. rest of the conditions laid down by the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan in its .. are deleted herein. the petition is partially allowed with the above modification. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?