page the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla. no. provincial government others petitioners. shah nawaz son of abdul wadood resident of napura basin tehsil district gilgit. respondent. present: the advocate general alongwith for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... judgment. this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition no. learned gilgit -baltistan chief court whereby the said writ petition of the respondent was allowed and the petitioner were directed to reinstate the services from the date of his termination with all back benefits, hence, this leave to appeal. briefly facts of the case are hat respondent was appointed as daily wager vide officer order no. gfd -() dated ... consequently the respondent was posted to gulmakai kargah. whereafter on the recommendation of conservation committee of the area as well as the co ncerned range forest officer, the respondent was further appointed adjusted as contingent paid chowkidar vide letter no. wl -() dated ... the petitioner regularized the services of the respondent alongwith three others employees as regular page development contingent paid chowkidar in bps (fixed) from .. vide office ... the respondent on .. was sent to sarhad forest school abbottabad in order to get professional training. subsequently he undergone the traini ng and he successfully got a certificate thereto. suddenly on .. the petitioner discontinued the services of the respondent vide office .. on account of shortage of fund etc. the respondent being aggrieved filed a departmental appeal before the petitioner who declined to grant relief as prayed for. whereafter the respondent filed writ petition no. before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court which upon hearing was allowed, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that the respondent was appointed as community wildlife guard bps on contingent basis in development scheme protection conservation of endanger wildlife species vide ... after about three years his services were extended alongwith three () other employees but word used as regular development contingent paid employee in the said letter. he also submits that due to this misconception, the respondent considered that his services have been regularized. on such misconception the learned chief court by its .. in writ petition no. allowed the petition and the petitioner were directed to regularize the services of the respondent with back benefits, which is not ustainable. page conversely, the learned advocate appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned judgment the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court being well reasoned and well founded. he prays that the said impugned judgment may ery graciously be maintained being passed in accordance with law and facts of the case. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. the learned advocate general could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment the learned gilgit baltistan chief court. in view of he above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is affirmed. the petition is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?.