page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan, gilgit. chief judge. judge. civil. appeal. no. in cpla. no. provincial government through chief secretary others petitioners. adil rehmat son of sharifullah (foot constable) chilas diamer at present serving in karakoram security force. respondent. present:- the advocate general alongwith on-record for the petitioners. rehmat ali advocate- on-record on behalf of the respondent. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the said writ petition of the respondent was allowed by setting aside the impugned .. issued by the inspector general police gilgit-baltistan. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case was finally heard today on ... briefly the facts of the case are that respondent was initially appointed as foot constable (f.c) bps- in karakoram security force alongwith others on contract basis for a period of four () years vide office .. after condu cting page test interview as provided in the police rules. the respondent was awarded of rs. for his extra ordinary bravery, which he displayed in an accident wherein a precious life of a person was saved by the respondent. whereafter the services of the respondent were regularized by the petitioner no. vide .. against a clear vacant post of reserve police force gilgit. after lapse of more than two years the said order was withdrawn vide .. being against the procedure rules and the respondent was reverted back to karakoram security force. the respondent feeling aggrieved filed writ petition before the learned chief court which was allowed. the learned advocate general submits that the respondent was appointed as constable for a period of four years purely on contract basis. he also submits that the respondent got his services regularized through unfair means without adopting the set procedure and rules i.e. test interview. he submits that no sanction from the competent authority was taken while regularizing the services of the respondent. he further submits that neither the post of constable was advertised nor any dsc was constituted by the competent authorities which is a pre-requisite for the appointment of the said post. he finally submits that the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned .. in writ petition no. without taking into consideration the version of the petitioners, hence, the same is not sustainable and liable to set aside. page on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. he contends that the said judgment is well reasoned and well founded and no interference is warranted into it being passed in accordance with law and facts of the case. he prays that the said impugned judgment may graciously be maintained in the interest of justice. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief cou rt. in our considered view the said impugned judgment is well reasoned and well founded. the learned advocate general, otherwise, could not oint out any illegality and infirmity in the said impugned judgment. we are in agreement with the learned counsel for the respondent that no interference is warranted into the impugned judgment. in view of the above, this appeal is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?