page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. shareef ullah respondent. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith deputy advocate general for the petitioners. johar ali advocate -on-record on behalf of the respondent. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition filed by the respondent was accepted by directing the petitioner to release the salary of the respondent from the date of its stoppage declaring him as regular employee of the petitioners. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this petit ion for leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard today. page briefly the facts of the case are that the respondent filed a writ petition no. on .. in the learned chief court contending therein that his salary may graciously be released as his services have been regularized by the petitioner vide office order no. ce admin dated ... per the version of the petitioner the respondent is a stranger and he has not been appointed as helper bps under water power division astore. the impugned appointment order is fake, fabricated and bogus as the same was not issued by the petitioners. the learned advocate general submits that no post of helper bps was neither advertised nor any test interview was conducted by constituting a selection committee by the petitioners. he submits that the impugned office order regarding the appointment of the respondent was not issued by the petit ioners as the same is fake, fabricated and bogus. per learned advocate general how salary can be released in favour of a stranger as he is not an employee of water power department. he submits that writ petition so filed by the respondent in the learned chief court was not maintainable as there are factual controversies in the matter which can only be entertained by the competent court of law in accordance with law. he further submits that the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned rder dated .. in writ petition no. hence, the same is not tenable and liable to be set aside. page on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. he contends that the petitioner malafidely stopped the salary of the respondent. consequently, the respondent was constrained to file writ petition in the learned chief court which was rightly allowed vide impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. he prays that the said impugned order may pleased be maintained to score the ends of justice. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. the perusal of the record tran spires that there are factual controversies in the case in question as the petitioner disown the impugned office order and the respondent claims that it has been issued by the petitioner validly. the services of the respondent have reported ly been regula rized. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequent thereto, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is set aside, however, the respondent may approach the competent court of law for redressal of his grievances, if he is so advised. page the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.