page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan registry branch skardu. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others. petitioners. aftab ali khan others. respondents. civil appeal no. in cpla no. aftab ali khan others. petitioners. provincial government others. respondents. present:- the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the petitioner in civil appeal no. and for the respondent in civil appeal no. (respondent no. in civil appeal no. is present in person. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... the aforementioned civil appeals have arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition nos. the learned hief court, whereby the said writ petitions filed by the respondent in civil appeal no. and petitioner in civil appeal no. were partially allowed with the directions to the official page petitioner respondent to fix the maximum age of all the candidates appearing in the competitive examinations to be held by the fpsc as years. the official respondent have also been directed to make necessary amendments in the syllabus of the papers of ddpp (bps -) addpp (bps -) by omitting the subject of civil law and major act by replacing the same with criminal administration of similarly, the answeri ng respondent in the writ petitions now the petitioner were also directed to change the irrational and illegal proportion of marks in written and viva voce in case of assistant legal adviser and to fix it as for written test viva respec tively. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said judgment of the learned chief court filed this civil leave to appeal for the setting aside the same whereas the petitioner in writ petition no. also filed cros the impugned judgment to the extent of fixing minimum maximum age as respectively with general relaxation of years in respect of the examination of law officers i.e. ddpp etc conducted under general recruitment rules, at par with the provinces of the punjab, sindh, kpk and baluchistan. briefly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner published an advertisement for the recruitment of the posts of deputy district public prosecutor (bps -), assistant district page public prosecutor (bps -) and assistant legal advisor (bps -) through daily newspaper dated .. wherein the age limit for the above posts was fixed as under: a. minimum years and maximum years for ddpp bps-. b. minimum years and maximum years for adpp bps-. c. minimum years and maximum years for ala bps the upper age limit was relaxed by a maximum of three years for candidates belonging to schedule caste, buddhist community and gilgit -baltistan and years in case of government servants who have rendered a minimum of two years continuous government service on closing date of receipt of application. similarly, the federal public commission islamabad, through another advertisement dated .. invi ted applications for competitive examination to fill posts of dsps (bps -) wherein the minimum maximum age limit was fixed as years respectively with the year general relaxation. the years relaxation in case of government servants who have completed at least two years continuous service on the closing date of submission of applications. likewise, years age relaxation has also been given to the persons who had served in the armed forces of pakistan. th rough a subsequent advertisement, the petitioner advertised the post of assistant commissioner, section officer, project manager, tehsildar and development officer wherein the page age limit was fixed as years to years. further, the upper age limit was relaxed by maximum of years. the ans wering petitioner vide notification dated .. have held that the candidates for the posts of ddpp bps shall undergo written examination of papers consisting of marks marks each) and marks are further provided for viva voce. the de tail of the said four papers is as under: civil law (i) civil procedure code. (ii) court fee act (bare acts to be provided) (iii) specific relief act. criminal law (i) code of criminal procedure (bare acts to be provided). (ii) pakistan penal code. (iii) qanoon -e-shahdat. islamic law (i) islamic jurisprudence. (ii) islamic law (fiqa hanif and fiqa jaffari). major acts (i) gilgit -baltistan pre -emption act. (ii) suits valuation act. (iii) contract act. (iv) arbitration act. likewise, the candidates for the post of addpp bps are required to go through the a bove papers of marks plus marks of viva voce and to get through in the competitive examination for the post of assistant legal advisor bps -. the examination was held containing marks for written test and marks for viva voce. in this category i.e. assistant legal page advisor bps the candidates have to appear in two papers namely civil law and criminal law. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan submits that the petitioner have got approved the rules for appointment within the four corners of law and no candidate can compel the commission to advertise the vacant positions written test etc as per their whims wishes. per learned the learned advocate general, it is the provincial government who has powers to decide about the proposed syllabus for the law officers of gilgit -baltistan keeping in view the nature of the posts an other attending circumstances. the petitioner cannot claim for a syllabus of their own choice. he also submits that the experience is not a requirement of law for the purpose of initial appointment on the posts of bps and bps -. the competent fresh law graduate can also be a suitable candidate for the said posts. he argued that the learned chief court fell in error by allowing th writ petitions of the respondent partially vide the impugned judgment, therefore, the said impugned judgment is not tenable and liable to be set aside in circumstances. conversely, the respondent no. present in person support the impugned judgmen t. he contends that answering respondent were discriminated. they were not extended general relaxation of years in age provided under the act of for the posts of page assistant deputy district public prosecution bps and district public prosecutor bps which is altogether different from the advertisement pertaining to recruitment of dsps where the candidates were held entitled for both the upper age relaxations of years and years respectively. he further argued that the answering respondent have failed to frame rules for app ointment in conformity at par with the other provinces. they framed and approved appointment policies which are at variance even to that of different departments of gilgit -baltistan inspite of falling under the same academic qualifications. it was also argued that the posts of assistant legal advisor, assistant deputy district public prosecutor and deputy district public prosecutor being profe ssional posts were required to be filled by well qualified, professional and experienced graduates. he prayed that the well reasoned impugned judgment the learned chief court may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment th learned chief court. we have also perused the impugned recruitment rules and the syllabus approved by the petitioners. the perusal the record transpires that sheer discrimination has been committed by the petitioner while framing and approving the recruitment rules for the appointment of page assistant deputy public prosecutor deputy district public prosecutor (bps- respectively. such benefit has not been given regarding general relaxation of age to the petitioner(s) as the same has been extended to other candidates i.e. (the candidates applying for the posts of combine competitive examination gilgit baltistan) through the same advertisement. likewise, general relaxation of age has also been granted to the persons who have served in the armed forces of pakistan and to those government servants who have rendered a minimum of two years continuous service ill the closing date of submission of their application. similarly, the syllabus for the posts of assistant deputy public prosecutor and deputy district public prosecutor (bps- is also irrational, irrelevant and illegal as the assistant deputy pub lic prosecutor has to conduct the criminal cases on behalf of the state but astonishingly the subject of criminal the learned chief court has rightly allowed the writ petitions filed by the respondent partially vide its impugned judgment which in our considered view is sustainable being well reasoned and well founded. consequently, this court does not want to interfere into the impugned judgment the learned chief court. in view of the above discussions, we dismissed the civil appeal no. in cpla no. filed by the page government of gilgit -baltistan others, vide our short .. by affirming the impugned .. in writ petitions nos. th learn ed chief court gilgit -baltistan. the civil appeal no. filed by the governm ent of gilgit baltistan thers was dismissed vide our above short ... consequent thereto, the impugned .. the learned chief court was maintained, therefore, the civ il appeal no. in cpla no. filed by aftab ali khan others has become infructouos which is disposed off accordingly. these were the reasons for our said short order. the appeals are dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.