page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. misc. no. in cpla. no. provincial gov t. through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. accountant general pakistan revenue gilgit -. district account officer gilgit. district account officer skardu. district account officer ghanche. district account officer diamer. district account officer astore. district account officer gh izer. district account officer hunza. secretary finance gilgit -baltistan. secretary health gilgit -baltistan. petitioners. dr. ghulam ali dhs skardu. dr. muhammad akram ad. dr. wazir ahmed dd admin. dr. rasheed ahmed dd planning. dr. iqbal rasool ad admin gilgit. dr. shameem shah dhs office gilgit. dr. syed israr hussain dho office gilgit. dr. muhammad mubeen focal person tb program gilgit baltistan. dr. bismillah khan mnch gilgit. dr. muhammad iqbal epi agar gilgit. dr. saleem ud din dho ghizer. dr. abdul salam gahkuch. dr. sher hafiz dho hunza. dr. shakeel ahmed khan dho diamer. dr. muhammad raza dr. muhammad imran khan dho astore. dr. iqbal baig director health services baltistan region skardu. dr. zakir assistant director health services baltistan region. dr. syed sadiq shah district health officer ghanche. dr. ghulam mehdi district health officer ghanche. dr. mubashir hussain assistant district health officer skardu. dr. ghulam haid er dms dhq hospital skardu. page respondents. appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order read with enabling rules of gilgit -baltistan supreme appellate court rules against the impugned -- the learned service tribunal gilgit baltistan in service appeal no. whereby accepting the appeal od respondent the learned service tribunal has declared the appellant (officers of administrative cadre of gilgit -baltistan heal th department) are entitled to receive incentive package health professional allowance with effect from -- to 1st january present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith -on- record for petitioners. respondent are present in person. date of hearning: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. the learned advocate general contends that the respondent filed a service appeal no. before the learned gilgit -baltistan servic tribunal, whereby the said service appeal was accepted vide impugned -- in appeal no. while declaring the respondent (officers of administrative cadre health department gilgit -baltistan) entitled to receive incentive package health professional allowance with effect from .. to ... the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. notices were issued to the respondent and the case was fixed for hearing today. he contends page that the incentive package was given to the senior medical consultants specialists and the petitioner are the administrative staff of health department gilgit -baltistan, hence, they are not entitled for the said package. he also submits that he learned service tribunal did not apply its judicial mind while passing the impugned judgment, therefore, the same is not sustainable and liable to be set aside. we have heard the learned advocate general at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in appeal no. the learned service tribunal. the learned advocate general could not point out any infirmity and illegality in the said impugned judgment. we, therefore, are not incli ned to grant leave to appeal. the leave is refused. consequently, the impugned .. in appeal no. the learned service tribunal being well reasoned is maintained. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not? page