page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. muhammad kazim baig others respondents. present: the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general gilgit -baltistan and -on-record for the petitione rs. date of hearing short order: ... date of detailed judgment:- ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this civil appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition filed by the respondent was accepted by re-instating the respondent as employees of excise taxation department gilgi t-baltistan with all back benefits. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the impugned judgment filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case was heard on ... briefly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner are residents of gilgit -baltistan who were appointed in the excise and page taxation department gilgit -baltistan initially on contingent basis. subsequently, they we re adjusted against the vacant posts on permanent basis in the years later on, it was transpired that the said appointments have been made in utter violation of the relevant service rules and procedure. the then chief minister gilgit -baltist an while taking notice the allegations constituted an inspection team to probe into and to find out facts regarding disputed appointments. the committee investigated the matter and submitted a report containing findings and recommendations. on the asis of the said findings and recommendations, the respondent no. i.e. the secretary excise taxation gilgit -baltistan issued notices to the respondent with the allegation that the petitioner in collusion with the then officers offici als of the excise taxation department have fraudulently drawn salaries from conce rned district accounts offices. the said appointments were declared void ab -initio a the posts against which the respondent appointed were temporary which were created up to 31st may, neither continuations of the said posts have been sought nor have the same been incorporated in the nis for the financial year -. the pay drawn by the respondent from 31st may, onward being over above of the permissible eriod, is recoverable from them. accordingly the respondent were issued show cause as to why their appointment orders should not be cancelled and they should not be terminated from their services. the show cause notices were page replied by the respondent de nying the a llegations leveled against them. they prayed that their services may not be terminated being lawfully appointed by the competent authority. the respondent no. i.e. the secretary excise taxation department gilgit baltistan turned down their request. consequently, on .., the respondent no. terminated the services of the respondent vide office order no. sec(r) –admin () dated ... the respondent being aggrieved filed writ petition no. before learned chief ourt which upon hearing was accepted, hence, th is leave to appeal. the learned advocate general contends that the contingency appointment orders in favour of the respondent were fake and fabricated. he also submits that the said appointment orders were illegally issued to cover up the way to regularize the contingent service of the respondent into permanent basis. per learned advocate general, the vacancies against which the respondent were unlawfully appointed on regular basis were purely temporary and ceased to exist up to 1st june, for the reasons that continuation was not sought by the department from the competent authority. the disputed appointments were made without fulfilling the requisite codal formalities and othe rs pre- requisites i.e. the publication of advertisement for inviting the application from the suitable candidate and conducting test interview etc. he fu rther submits that the disputed appointments have been made through back door arrangements page without completing the codal formalities. since, it is proved that an appointment in government job has been made without completing the procedure and codal formalities can be cancelled at any stage even without issuing show cause notice to the individual concern ed. he submits that the corruption and malpractice has been committed by the then authorities of the excise taxation department. the national accountability bureau (nab) has already taken cognizance against the responsible officers officials. he submits that the learned chief secretary gilgit -baltistan was competent to entertain departmental appeal but the respondent did not prefer any such appeal. the respondent opted to file departmental appeal to the then chief minister gilgit -baltistan which was illegal in the eye of law. the chief minister gilgit baltistan is not competent to interfere and pass restoration orders thereto. per learned advocate general, the restoration .. issued by the then chief minister gilgit -baltistan was without lawful authority has no legal force to be acted upon. he submits that since the appointments have been made in utter violation of law and procedure as such the same could even be cancelled after taking effec and the principle of locus poententiae applies only when any order creating certain legal rights in favour of an individual. he prays that the impugned .. the learned chief court is not sustainable and liable to be set aside. page on the other hand, he contends that admittedly, the respondent were initially appointed on contingent basis and subsequently upon their good performance they were regularized by the respondent no. on permanent basis. he a lso contends that the respondent have served in the department for a long period, who gained rich experience. per learned counsel, the disputed appointments have taken effect as such the same authority not legally competent to cancel and recall the order him. he further contends that any order the competent authority had the power to undo it but such order after creating certain rights in favour of a person could not be withdrawn, amended under the admitted principle of locus poententiae. the termination orders dated .. was illegal and has been issued without lawful authority. he contends that the responden ts filed service appeal before the gilgit -baltistan service tribunal against the termination order but in the meantime, the chief minister gilgit -baltistan in his capacity as chief executive of the province intervened in the matter and set aside the termin ation order by re -instating the respondent in their services which attained finality. he contends that the impugned .. the learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded which may pleased be maintained. page we hav heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned judgment. admittedly the respondent had been appointed by the incompetent authorit ies without completing the odal formali ties of the fundamental service rules against the posts which were not existed and or no nis was issued against such posts. the fake appointment order(s) were obtained by the respondent illegally and unlawfully in collusion and connivance with the then authorities. in case the respondent were in government service admittedly no appeal was filed in the learned gilgit -baltistan serv ice tribunal and in case such appeal was filed no order the gilgit -baltistan service tribunal was produced either in the learned chief court or in this court by the respondents. the then chief minister gilgit -baltistan has illegally and unlawfull reinstated the respondent in their services. it is settled principle of law that any appointment in violation of any law rules if made is always discouraged. the appointments of the respondent undeniably were made in departure of the method for appointment of the civil servants (appointment, promotion transfer) rules, under the said rules the vacant positions is necessarily be advertised in the newspapers and the vacant posts be filled purely on merits. the contingent employees cannot as a matter of right be appointed regularized without completing the codal formalities. an administrative order can not be cancelled by another administrative order. the learned chief court fell in error page while accepting the writ petition and failed to follow he parameter laid down in the service matters by the apex court. in our considered view, the impugned judgment is not sustainable. consequently, we converted this petition into an appeal and the same was allowed vide our short orde dated ... consequent thereto, the impugned .. the learned chief court and the order no. cm sectt.() dated .. issued by the then chief minister gilgit -baltistan were set aside. these were the reasons of our sai short order. the appeal was allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?