page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan and others. petitioners. rehmat jan deputy superintendent of police (legal) others. respondent s. civil appeal no. in cpla no. all police officers (aisps to dsps) of gilgit -baltistan police through representatives. petitioners. rehmat jan deputy superintendent of police (legal) others. respondents. present: the advocate general alongwith -on-record for the petitioner in civil appeal no. and for the respondent nos. to in civil appeal no. and for the respondent nos. to in civil appeal no. munir ahmed advocate for the petitioner in civil appeal no. date of hearing: date of detailed judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... these appeals have arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court page whereby the said writ petition filed by the responden ts was accepted by directing the petitioner to maintain the combined seniority list of pdsps with dsps of general cadre with effect from the date i.e. .. and then process the promotion case of respondent at par with dsps of general cadre, hence, these petitions for leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leav to appeal and the case was heard on ... briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent no. to in both the aforementioned writ petition no. in the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan contending therein that the separate seniority list of the pdsps of the police department gilgit -baltistan maintained by the official petitioner is illegal and unlawful. the respondent prayed for maintaining of combine seniority list of general cadre dsps and pdsps for promotion etc in order to remove the dis parity and discrimination. upon hearing, the said writ petition was allowed by the learned chief court with the directions to the petitioner to prepare the combine seniority list of both dsps and pdsps. the officials petition ers submitted parawise comments that all the respondent are serving as deputy superintendant of police (dsp) in the police department of gilgit baltistan since ... initially all the respondent were appointed as sub -inspectors of police (sips) in the police department and then obtained promotions at different times to the existing rank and scales. the combined seniority list of page respondent and the petitioner i.e. the general cadre officers was maintained by the official petitioner till -. hereafter on .., the competent authority of gilgit -baltistan police separated both the cadres and maintained two different categories of seniority at par with the province of punjab in line with the punjab police rules, the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. .e. the dsps legal branch was not maintainable being barred by time as the separate seniority was implemented by the officials petitioner vide office memorandum dated .. in line with the punjab police rule s, adopted by the government of gilgit -baltistan. the dsps legal branch filed writ petition in the year after lapse of years. the respondent should have approach ed the gilgit -baltistan service tribunal under article of the constitution of islamic republic of pakistan, instead of invoking the writ jurisdiction of the learned chief court. the seniority and promotion are not the vested right under section of the civil servants act, read with article of the constitution of isl amic republic of pakistan, he submit that both the cadres i.e. the general cadre dsps and the pdsps are different cadres and the prosecuting dsps cannot be equated with general cadre who are governed differently. page per learned counsels, as far as the cadre for the general police is concerned, they prior to their promotion have to qualify certain mandatory training courses likes probation course, intermediate course, upper course, advance course and command course which the respondent pdsp(s) are lacking not qualified. he further submits that the police inspectors of general cadre were never promoted to the rank of pdsps. on contrary, the prosecuting inspectors were upgraded from psi (bs -) to pi (bs -) and then to pdsps (bs -) which the respondent have deliberately concealed from the learned chief court. he also submits that the respondent deliberately have not impleaded the petitioner in writ petition no. likewise, the respondent have also not impleaded the petitioner nos. to in cpla no. as they were affectees and necessary party in the learned chief court. consequently, the dsps of general cadre have been condemned unheard in the learned chief court. per learned counsel, his act on the part of the respondent was malafide as the one who seeks equity must come with clean hands. he added that the respondent pdsp(s) were admittedly governed under the punjab police rules and the same pattern was adopted at the time of establishing the prosecution branches in all the districts of gilgit -baltistan, the then northern areas. he reiterate that the notification no. sos -iv-() the governor gilgit -baltistan has been pleased to adopt the punjab government service rules page to the extent of pdsps bps pr osecuting inspector legal (bps-) and prosecuting sub inspector legal (bps -). he submitted that the impugned judgment the learned chief court in violation of the mandatory police rules, hence, the same is not tenable. the writ petition filed by the respondent in the learned chief court was otherwise barred by time. he prays that the said impugned judgment may gracious ly be set aside. while saying so he relied upon the case laws reported as scmr nlr nlr lahore, scmr, the learned advocate general adopted the arguments of on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent (dsps legal supports the impugned he contends that his clients filed the writ petition in the learned chief court seeking combined seniority from the officials of police department gilgit -baltistan, therefore, they have not impleaded the dsps gene ral cadre as they are were strangers and they have nothing to do with the case in question. he submits that the writ petition filed by the respondent was not barred by time as they had submitted a departmental appeal which was pending. per learned counsel, the separate seniority list of both the cadres of police department gilgit -baltistan is illegal, void and unlawful being based on malafide and discrimination. in case the page separate seniority list of pdsp(s) is continued, the respondent will suffer irrepa rable loss, who will retire as pdsp without any further promotion in their careers. earlier, there was a combined seniority list of both the cadres till which was illegally and unlawfully separated in the year in order to block the promotion of the respondents. according to article () () of the police order, the police establishment constituted under article shall, for practical purpose be organized on functional basis into branches, divisions, bureaus and sections, it is manifest from article () of the said order, that every police officer shall be liable for posting for any branches, divisions, bureaus and sections or anywhere in or outside the police. he prays that the well reasoned impugned judgment passe by the learned chief court may graciously be maintained. in support of his contentions he relied upon case law reported as scmr we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties, perused the materials on record, gone through the impugned judgment the learned chief court and also gone through the case laws relied upon by both the parties. we have also perused the punjab police rules, police order, cited by the learned counsel for the parties as well. admi ttedly, the writ petition of the respondent was barred by time for a period of more than years and no plausible reasons and explanations were offered by the respondent either in the learned page chief court or in this court. it was lawful to approach the competent court of law well within the time prescribed by law. mere filing of departmental appeal is not sufficient ground for filing writ petition. in case the departmental appeal is not heard and decided within days, the respondent should have appro ached the service tribunal for redressal of their grievance which they admittedly failed to approach the learned service tribunal. it is also an admitted fact that the pdsps dsps legal branch, have not gone through qualified the various mandatory training courses i.e. probation course, intermediate course, upper course, advance course and command course etc, therefore, they cannot be equated with the general cadre police officials. in case they are equated merged, it will fall in category of out of turn promotion which is illegal, ab -initio void and unlawful and this court has already declared such kind of promotion illegal in smc no. case titled shoulder out of turn promotion. the punjab police rules, was adopted in by the government of the then northern areas. we have also gone through the case laws referred by the learned counsels for the respective parties. punjab police rules, the case laws cited by the learned counsels for the petitioner are applicable whereas the case aw relied upon by the learned counsel for the respondent is distinguishable. consequent thereto, the impugned judgment the learned page chief court is not sustainable being passed contrary to the mandatory police rules and being barred by time. in view of the above discussions, both the aforementioned appeals were allowed vide our short ... the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court was set aside. the official(s) fro legal branch if merged or promoted in a general cadre of police be reverted back in their original position(s) forthwith. the respondent i.e. (the dsps legal etc) may, however, approach to the proper forum for redressal of their grievances if they are advised. the government of gilgit -baltistan may consider in creating vacancies seats for the prosecution superintendent of police, so as, their promotion may not be blocked in their own cadres. these were the reasons for the said short order. the appeals were allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.