page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. hanif –ur-rehman muqaddam respondent. civil appeal no. in cpla no. abdul rauf others petitioners. hanif –ur-rehman muqaddam others respondents. present: in civil appeal no. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. muhammad abbas khan advocate -0n-record for the respondent. in civil appeal no. ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. muhammad abbas khan advocate -0n-record for the respondent no. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... these appeals have arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court page whereby the writ petition filed by the respondent hanif -ur-rehman muqaddam was accepted with the direction to the offi cial petitioner to regularize transfer the services of the respondent from .., the date when all the other project employees were transferred as regular employees in the police department gilgit -baltistan, with all back benefits of pay, allowances, seniority and promotion etc. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment filed this leave to appeal. subsequently, the affectees who were not impleaded as respondent in writ petition no. by th respondent hanif -ur-rehman muqaddam being aggrieved directly approached this court against the said impugned judgment the learned chief court, filed leave to appeal no. since, both the appeals have been directed against th said impugned judgment, therefore, the same are consolidated and decided through this common judgment. this court granted leave to appeal on .. in cpla no. and both the petitions are heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are tha the an agreement dated .. was executed between the national highway authority (nha), ministry of communication, government of pakistan with the then northern areas administration northern areas police to provide safety and security to the chinese company and its employees working on the up -gradation of karakoram highway (kkh) (raikot to khunjurab section to ensure the page provision of peaceful working environment, with a view to facilitate chinese to work with their full satisfaction. the respondent hanif ur-rehman muqaddam was initially appointed as dsp (bps -) on contract basis alongwith others for a period of six () months with immediate effect vide notification no. so(s) --() dated ... whereafter the contract services of the respondent were extended from time to time and lastly vide notification no. so(s) --() dated .. for the fourth time his services were extended for further one year or till the completion of the proje ct. on .. vide notification no. so(s) -- () the competent authority has been pleased to terminate the services of the respondent hanif -ur-rehman muqaddam w.e.f .. on the recommendation and advic of the then inspector general of police gilgit -baltistan. prior to his termination, the respondent filed a civil suit no. on .. in the learned court of senior civil per averments of the respondent han if-ur-rehman muqaddam, the cause of action arose when on .. the official petitioner refused to take him on regular basis. he, however, moved an application under order rule cpc whereby he prayed that he may not be disturbed as contract em ployee till the decision of above civil suit. consequently, he succeeded in obtain ing status quo. the said application was heard on .., which upon hearing was dismissed and the status quo earlier granted was vacated. the page respondent being aggrieved from the .. filed civil first appeal no. in the court of district ... the learned counsel for the respondent hanif -ur-rehman muqaddam filed an application seeking withdrawal of the said appeal and the civil suit pending in the learned trial court on the ground that the respondent wants to invoke the writ jurisdiction of the the learned first appellate court, however, was pleased to dispose off the said appeal as withdrawn unconditionally vide ... whereafter the respondent hanif -ur-rehman muqaddam filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court praying therein that in pursuance of clause (g) of the said agreement dated .., he be regularized transferred into gilgit -baltistan police as dsp. the said writ petition of the respondent hanif -ur- rehman muq addam after hearing the learned counsels for the respective parties was accepted by the learned chief court, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general appearing on behalf of the official petitioner submits that the writ etition of the respondent was not maintainable as the respondent was terminated from his services on .. with effect from .. on the recommendation and advic of the inspector general of police, gilgit -baltistan. the said termination order was not challenged by page the respondent in any forum court of law which attained finality and holds field. further, withdrew the appeal no. alongwith the civil suit no. filed for regularization of his contractual ervice on the ground that he wants to invoke the writ jurisdiction in superior court for redressal of his grievances. the appellate court, however, disposed off the said appeal as withdrawn unconditionally vide ... per learned advocate general, the respondent has not filed any application in the same court for correction of the order and or the respondent also did not file any revision petition in the learned chief court for setting aside the order of the learned district further, uring the pendency of the said civil suit and appeal, the regularization of services of the contract employees act, was enacted on ... per learned advocate general, for the sake of arguments, if the case the respondent is taken as it is, the respondent has not approached the provincial government or court of law against his termination from service with effect from .. till promulgation of the said act on .. and or for continuation of his contractual services. admittedly, he was not in the service of the petitioner at the time of he enactment of the said act, and instead, he filed the writ petition which was not maintainable. the contract employees in service prior to the said notification or appointed on the day of its enforcement can only be benefited. since, the respondent was ot in contract service at the time of the enactment of said statue rather his contractual services page were terminated with effect from .. which disentitles him from the benefit of the said enactment as claimed by him. he further submits that under the police rules no employee of any other department can either be inducted directly or promoted unless pre -requisite qualifications and trainings are fulfilled and all other codal formalities be completed thereto. on the contrary, the respondent does not pos sess such qualifications, experience and pre-requisite trainings. the remedy, if any, has already been availed by invoking the jurisdiction of the civil court whereas the writ petition filed by him was not maintainable and hit by the doctrine of estoppel. the learned chief court has not applied its judicial mind to the facts that a contract employee whose services were terminated with effect from .. and he was not in the contractual service of the petitioner when the regularization of services of the contract employees act, was enacted, the writ petition can not be entertained. further, the respondent has already availed an alternate remedy withdrawn his civil suit and the appeal pending before the learned district .., five months prior to the enactment of the aforementioned statue. the respondent instead of approaching the right forum court of law wrongly invoked the extra -ordinary jurisdiction of the learned chief court under article () of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, read with the enabling article of the constitution of islamic republic of pakistan, he submits that the impugned page judgment is not tenable in law and liable to be set aside. he also submits that wher alternate remedy is available, writ does not lie. while saying so he relied upon the case laws reported as scmr scmr and scmr ado pted the arguments of the learned advocate general. he, however, adds that it is a settled principle of law that where a case was withdrawn simpliciter, a second action on the same subject matter was barred, therefore, the writ petition was not maintainabl e. the principle of constructive res judicata is also attracted in this case. in support of his above cont ention, he relied upon case law reported as ylr on the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent hanif -ur-rehman muqaddam supports the impugned judgment the learned chief court. he contends that the civil suit in question was filed by the respondent on .. when his request was turned down for his adjustment in police department on pe rmanent basis. the question of withdrawal of the appeal and civil suit does not put embargo on the respondent for filing writ petition in the learned chief court. per learned counsel, the application for the withdrawal of appeal and civil suit was made sim ply to approach the superior court for redressal of his grievances on a new cause of action i.e. the termination of the services of the respondent and his regularization page on permanent basis in line with the regularization of services of the contract employe es act, on the contrary, the order the learned first appellate court was mentioned withdrawal of the appeal unconditionally which was never prayed by the respondent. he further contends that section of the regularization of services of th contract employees act, safeguards all the employees appointed on contract basis and holding the ir posts in different departments of gilgit -baltistan prior to or ti ll the commencement of the act. it shall be deemed to have been validly appointed on regular basis having same qualifications and experiences for regular posts for initial appointment shall be entitled for the benefits of the said act. per learned counsel, since all the employees on contract basis were adjusted in police department on perm anent basis, therefore, the respondent hanif ur-rehman muqaddam is also entitled for the same benefits the principle of consistency. the doctrine of estoppels and res judicata is not applicable in his case. the respondent hanif -ur-rehman muqaddam is als entitled for regularization of his services on the basis of his more than years contract ual services inspite of the post of dsp bps was not advertised through fpsc and similarly no test interview was conducted accordingly. he contends hat since th fundamental right of the respondent was infringed by the petitioner and he was discriminated, therefore, he has rightly invoked the constitutional jurisdiction of the learned chief court page for redressal of his grievances. he prays that the impugned judgment may graciously be maintained. in support of his claim, the learned counsel for the petitioner has not cited any case law. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record, gone though the impugned judgment the learned chief court, order of the learned civil .. the appellate court and the case law cited by learned coun sels for the respective parties. admittedly, the respondent hanif -ur-rehman muqaddam was appointed as dsp bps on contract basis initially for a period of six () months under kkh rehabilitation project which was extended from time to time. consequently, his services were terminated with effect from .. by the competent authority on the recommendations and advic of the learned inspector general police gilgit -baltistan. the respondent hanif -ur-rehman muqaddam did not challenge the said termination order in any forum court of law which attains finality and hold field. the civil suit no. filed earlier by the respondent praying therein that his contractual services be regularized by the official petitioners. subsequently, he filed civil appeal no. and during the pendency of the said appeal he moved an application for not only the withdrawal of appeal but also the withdrawal of suit as well. the learned appellate court allowed the respondent for withdrawal of the appeal uncondition ally on which estopped him for any subsequent relief on the same page set of facts, same cause of action and against the same parties. it is a settled law that in presence of alternate and efficacious remedies available no writ lies. admitt edly, he post of dsp (bps -) was never advertised by the federal public service commission fpsc for either through direct induction or through promotion. admittedly, the respondent was terminated from contract service with effect from .. about months prior to the promulgation of the regularization of services of the contract employees act, admittedly, the respondent has not challenged his said termination order in any forum court of law which attained finality and hold field. the respondent was not in contractual services of the official petitioner prior or at the time of the said enactment, hence, he was is not entitled to get benefit of the said act. in our considered view, the learned chief court has misinterpreted the statue, hence, the impugned judgment is not tenable in law. the case laws cited by the learned advocate general and are applicable. in view of the above discussions, we allow ed both the above appeals vide our short ... consequent thereto, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court was set aside. these were the reasons of our said short ord er. page both he appeals are allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.