page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cpla no. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan others. petitioners. mst. rabiba wife of sabir ali resident of village tarishing (rupal) sub division shounter district astore. respondent. present: the advocate general alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... order dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed against the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the said writ petition filed by the respondent was allowed by directing the official petitioner to appoint the responde nt against the post of dia (bps -) in civil dispensary tarishing with immediate effect. they were also directed to furnish compliance report to the learned chief court through its registrar within two months of the receipt of the certified true copy of th impugned judgment the learned chief court. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment filed this leave to appeal. the learned ad vocate general submits that the husband of the respondent was a government employees who died page during his services. consequently, the respondent filed writ petition in the learned chief court praying therein that the petitioner be directed to appoint the espondent as dia under the prime minister assistance package for the families of the deceased employees upon hearing, the said writ petition of the respondent was allowed by the learned chief court with the directions to the petitioner to appoint her with immediate effect, hence, this leave to appeal. he submits that there is no availability of the suit post to appoint the respondent. he also submits that the respondent does not fulfill the requisite codal formalities for the said post; therefore, the petitioner are unable to appoint her. per learned advocate general, the respondent was nominated for three () month tbs course in dhq hospital eidgah astore but she could not complete pass the said required course. she cannot be appoint ed on the said post because of lacking of training and experience as dia. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error while allowing the writ petition of the respondent; therefore, the impugned judgment is not tenable. we have heard the learned adv ocate general gilgit baltistan, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment and the notification dated 19th april, issued by the government of gilgit -baltistan. the perusal of the record transpires that admittedly the respond ent is the widow of late sabir ali, nursing assistant, civil dispensary astore who died page on .. due to cancer. the respondent being the widow of government employee is entitled for the benefits of the prime minister assistance package for the famili es of the deceased employees the learned chief court has rightly allowed the writ petition with the direction to appoint the respondent as dia. in our considered view, the impugned judgment is well reasoned and well founded, hence, no indulgence into i is warranted by this court. further, the learned advocate general also failed to point out any infirmity and illegality in the impugned judgment the learned chief court. in view of the above discussions, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. consequently, the leave is refused by upholding the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. the leave is refused in above terms. chief judge. judge.