page the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. chief judge. judge. cpla. no. provincial government others petitioners. sher ghazi afiat khan khomer district gilgit. respondent. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... order the learned advocate general submits that during a cleanup operation of arms ammunitions in the year to get rid of illegal arms ammunitions from the city keeping in view the law order situation, the inhabitants of city were required to surrender their licensed arm ammunitions in circumstances. the respondent deposited his gun accordingly. the respondent approached the petitioner for the return of a bore shot gun bearing no. and another gun bearing no. made and manufactured by japan but the same ave not been returned to him. per the learned advocate general the respondent being aggrieved filed a civil suit no. in the learned trial court gilgit seeking declaration and consequential relief etc. upon hearing the said suit was decreed in favo ur of the plaintiff respondent vide page .. which was maintained up to the learned chief court, hence, this leave to appeal. per learned advocate general, the petitioner vide order no. ps adm -() dated .. co nstituted a committee comprising of the settlement officer gilgit, do fc, khyber regiment, sp gilgit and capt. chitral scouts to clean up the city from arms ammunitions. the notices were issued in the name of public at large for return disposal of such items but the respondent did not come forward to receive the said gun s. he finally contends that the learned chief court as well as the learned courts below fe ll in error in appreciating the above facts while passing the impugned judgments, therefore, the same are required to be set aside. we have heard the learned advocate general at length, perused the impugned .. passed in criminal revision no. by the learned chief court as well as the .. passed in civil first appeal no. and the .. the learned civil the learned advocate general could not point out any illegality infirmity in the said impugned judgments. in our considered view, the impugned .. passed in criminal revision no. by the learned chief court as well as the judgment the learned courts below are well reasoned and no interference is warranted. in view of the foregoing discussions, we are not inclined page to grant leave to appeal. the leave is refused accordingly. consequently, the impugned .. passed in criminal revision no. by the learned chief court as well as the .. passed in civil first appeal no. and the .. in civil suit no. the learned civil the leave is refused. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?