page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government other petitioners. shakoor muhammad others respondents. present: the advocate general alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the civil revision no. filed by the petitioner was converted into writ petition no. and the same was allowed by setting aside the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent plaintiff filed civil suit no. in the court of learned civil .. and .. the learned trial court. upon hearing the said suit was dismissed being meritless vide .. which was upheld by the learned district ... the respondent being aggrieved filed civil revision no. in the learned chief court which was converted into writ petition by invoking the supervisory power and the same was allowed. consequently, the co ncurrent findings of the learned courts below were set aside. the learned advocate general submits that the respondent claim for appointment against the post of game watcher bps on the basis of para of the office .. issued the deputy director fisheries. he submits that the basic qualification for the impugned post is matriculation whereas the respondent no. is an illiterate aged person, therefore, he can not be appointed against the said post. per learned counsel, the eputy director fisheries was not entitled and authorized to issue the said order, hence, it can not be implemented being unlawful and illegal. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error by allowing the writ petition of the respondents, hence, the impugned order is not sustainable whereas the learned courts below have rightly dismissed the suit of the respondents. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned order the learned page chief court. he conten ds that the petitioner were bound to appoint either the respondent no. or his nominated son against the disputed post in line with the office .. issued by the deputy director fisheries and in pursuance with the .. and .. the learned civil per learned counsel, the learned courts below failed to appreciate facts of the case whereas the learned chief court passed the impugned order in accordance with law and facts of the case. he prays that the impugned order the learned chief court may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned order as well as the orders of he learned courts below. in our considered view, the impugned order is not well founded. admittedly, the deputy director fisheries was not competent authority to appoint the respondents. further, the appointment of the respondent was not made as per service rules and after completing of codal formalities. we hold that the .. an incompetent authority is void ab-initio, illegal and has been issued without lawful authority. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned order da ted .. the learned chief court is set aside whereas the .. in civil suit no. the learned civil gilgit page .. in civil first appeal no. the earned appellate court district the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?