page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. kamous khan others respondents. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith deputy advocate general for petitioners. muhammad abbas khan advocate -on-record for respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed against the impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil appeal filed by the petitioner was allowed, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner vide award no. dk dated .. acquired the land of respondent for construction of kilometers link road darel, dodishal and khanbari. after announcement of the said award partial payment to the tune of rs. ,, was ma de to the page respondent while the suit amount remained outstanding. the respondent filed civil suit no. in the court of learned civil with compound interest at the rate of per year from the a cquisition of land till execution of decree. upon hearing, the learned trial court decreed the said civil suit in favour of the respondents. being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with said decree the petitioner filed civil appeal no. which upon hear ing was returned on basis of pecuniary jurisdiction under section of civil court ordinance, the petitioner being aggrieved filed civil first appeal no. before the learned chief court which upon hearing was allowed on payment of cost of rs. by the petitioner and directed the parties to appear before the learned trial court, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that the learned trial court fell in error while debarring the petitioner for filing the written statements as they are waiting for vetting the district attorneys. he also submits that the written statements not filed by the petitioner are admittedly against the mandatory provision of cpc but on appeal, the learned chief court restored the appeal on payment of cost of rs. by the petitioner vide .. which is against the law and rules. per learned advocate general, the learned chief court vide its said im pugned order included the words self styled proceeding which may be expunged. he submits that the learned courts below have failed to page apply its judicial minds while passing the impugned judgments orders. he submits that concurrent findings of the learned courts below may graciously be set aside by granting permission to file written statement before the learned trial court to defend the case on merit. on the other hand, he contends that the learned courts below have rightly appreciated the evidence on record while passing the judgments decree which are sustainable. he prays that concurrent findings the learned courts below may pleased be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned rder as well as the judgments decree the learned courts below. in our considered view, the concurrent findings the learned courts below are well reasoned and well founded. further, the learned advocate general also could not point out a ny infirmity or illegality in the well reasoned impugned order the learned chief court, hence, interference into concurrent findings of the three courts below is not warranted by this court. in view of the above discussions, we convert this etition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the page impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court as well as the concurrent findings of the learned courts below are affirmed. the appe al is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.