page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. sadaqat ameen others respondents. present: the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general and -on-record for the petitioners. malik kifayat -ur-rehman advocate alongwith -on-record for respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. cj..... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition filed by the respondent was accepted with the findings that the discriminatory re -designation of the already up -graded posts of computer operators from bps to bps- into bps stands nullified with the direction to the petitioner to regularize the services of the respondent in bps with effect the date of up -gradation of the posts of compu ter operators from bps to bps -, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case was heard today. page the learned advocate general submits that the respondent were never a ppointed in the posts of computer operators bps and they have no locus standi to file the writ petition in the chief court. he also submits that they were appointed on contract basis till regularization of their contractual services. per learned advocat general, after issuance of notification of re-designation of the said posts, the services of the respondent was regularized in the posts of data entry operators (deo) bps vide office order no. est(t) -() dated ... he adds that the act of creation of posts on need basis, allocation posts on area basis and recruitment in the posts under rules is internal basis of the petitioners. the respondent have no right of interference over official work of petitioners. he reiterates that no illegal or without authority act was committed by petitioner while regularizing the contingent contr act services of the respondent and they have no vested right to challenge the notification dated .. through writ petition. he submits that the learned ch ief court fell in error while passing the impugned ... he submits that the said impugned judgment is the result of mis -interpretation of law and misreading non -reading of the facts of the case and the same is not sustainable. he pray that the said impugned judgment may graciously be set aside to meet the ends of justice. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment the page learned chief court. he contends that the posts of comput er operators bps in the tourism department were re -designated as data entry operators bps was based on malafide intentions as the existing posts of computer operator bps had already been up -graded from bps to bps by the government of gilgit -baltistan vide notification dated ... per learned counsel, the discriminatory re -designation of the already up -graded posts of computer operators from bps to bps into bps results frustration among the respondents. the respondent may be treated equally among equals. he submits that the learned chief court has rightly accepted the writ petition filed by the respondent vide impugned ... he prays that the said impugned judgment may pleased be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment the learned chief court. in our considered view, the impugne .. the learned chief court is not well reasoned and well founded, hence, interference into it is warranted. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequent ly, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is set aside. page the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.