page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil review no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. muhammad alam others respondents. present: the advocate general for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this review petition has arisen out of the impug ned short .. this court whereby the leave to appeal filed by the petitioner was dismissed after converting the same into an appeal. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the sai short order filed this review petition. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. the brief facts of the case are that the respondent filed a service appeal no. in the learned gilg it-baltistan service tribunal challenging the impugned order no. () -esst-iii- services dated .. issued by the petitioners. through the said impugned order, the petitioner cancelled the office order no. page ig(prisons) -() dated .. vide which the respondent were appointed adjusted against the regular vacant posts of warder bps -. earlier, the respondent were performing their duties against the same posts on contract basis. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal upon hearin partially allowed the said appeal by setting aside the impugned ... consequently, the services of the respondent were reinstated, however, the second part of the appeal to stop the inquiry against the respondent was dismissed. the pe titioners feeling aggrieved filed cpla before this apex court which upon hearing was dismissed vide short ... the learned advocate general submits that the appointment order of the respondent was issued illegally, without lawful authority and void. he submits that the common office order no. ig(prisons) -() dated .. issued by the then ig prisons was passed in violation of gilgit -baltistan civil servant act, without fulfilling the fundamental requisites of servi ce rules i.e. advertisement, conducted written test interview by constituting a departmental selection committee etc. similarly, the respondent did not file any departmental appeal before the competent authorities prior to filing service appeal in the lea rned gilgit baltistan service tribunal. per learned counsel, the service appeal filed by the respondent in the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal was not maintainable. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal fell in error while accepting the same and passing the page impugned judgment thereto. he prays that the impugned short .. may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned short order .. this court. he contends that the respondent were appointed by the petitioner keeping in view their services on contingent basis and they are performing their duties to the entire satisfaction of the competent authorities. he also contends that although the petitioner ordered an inquiry against the respondent yet no proceeding has been initiated so far. per learned counsel, the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal has rightly allowed the service appeal of the petitioner which was upheld by this apex court vide impugned short order. he prays that the impugned short order may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned short order passe by this court as well the .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. admittedly, the service appeal filed by the respondent was not maintainable as no departmental appeal was filed by the respondents. the responde nts were appointed without fulfilling the codal formalities i.e. advertisement and test interview by constituting departmental selection committee (dsc). in view of the above, this review petition is allow ed by setting aside the impugned short order da ted .. page this court and the .. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. the review petition is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?