page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. cpla. no. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. secretary education gilgit -baltistan. director education gilgit -baltistan. deputy director education gilgit. accountant general gilgit -baltistan. deputy accountant general gilgit. petitioners. mst. masnona sheh zadi muhammad ramzan majini muhallah gilgit. respondent. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order read with enabling articles of gilgit baltistan supreme appellate court rul es against the impugned .. the service tribunal gilgit baltistan in appeal no whereby accepting the appeal the learned service tribunal has directed petitioner to release the pay of respondent from the date her appointment order. for setting aside the impugned judgment holding the same passed without consideration, without any jurisdiction and misunderstanding of facts converting this leave to appeal into appeal and accepting the appeal for the ends of justice, law and equity. present: page the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan contends that the respondent filed a service appeal in the gilgit -baltistan, service tribunal with the contention that she was initially appointed as mt teacher at girls primary school old polo ground gilgit on contingent basis on .. which was further extended till ... subsequently, the services of the petitioner were regularized adjusted against the vacant post of teacher bps on .. at girls primary school majini muhallah gilgit. he further submits that he petitioner contended before the service tribunal that the respondent have not paid her salary in line with the office order no. de -() admin dated ... he further contends that the petitioner filed their para wise comments wherein they re futed denied the contention of the respondent with the submission that the respondent was not a regular appointee of petitioner and her contingent order was also illegal and incorrect. he further submits that the for clarification of the position of the case, a questionnaire was devolved and the same was handed over to the respondent to answer and clear her position regarding her contingent appointment on the basis of the office order de () admin dated .. shows that the appointment order is of the year while the issue date shows that it is of the year page similar is the case with the extension order where is the file number is of the year hence both the orders are contradictory with each other. he further submits that in ca se of regularization order, the director education gilgit was demanded to provide complete record and incompliance thereof, the director education vide his letter no. de -() (admin) dated .. replied that despite thorough search no record fi le was found in the office of the director education gilgit. the respondent was directed to produce her attendance. in response she produced school attendance register sheet which is attendance of contingent staff teacher but she failed to produce any atte ndance as regular employee and even she failed to produce any salary slip as regular government servant. in this regard a committee was constituted which came to the conclusion that all the alleged appointments of the respondent whether contingent or regul ar basis were fake bogus and fabricated. the learned advocate general further submits that a leave to appeal bearing no. cpla was filed before this -baltistan wherein the respondent and some other affectees of education department gilgit -baltistan through representatives namely shah mirza, ibadat khan, syed iftikhar hussain and other filed an application under order rule cpc, they were made party but subsequently, on .., the said application was withdrawn page by them. he further submits that the respondent while concealing the facts of her appointment, filing of application before this court and withdrawal of the same on .. filed appeal before the learned service tribunal gilgit -baltistan. the learned service tribunal without taking consideration of the facts passed the impugned .. in appeal no. accepted the appeal of the responde nt and directed the petitioner to released the pay of the respondent from the date of her appointment order which is the result of the misconception of law and facts hence, the same is not tenable and liable to be set aside. we have heard the learned a dvocate general at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in appeal no. the learned service tribunal gilgit -baltistan. the learned advocate general could not pointed out any infirmity and illegality in the impugned .. in appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan, service tribunal. we are not inclined to grant leave. the leave to appeal is accordingly refused. the impugned .. in appeal no. the learned service tribunal, gilgit -baltistan is maintained. the leave is refused. chief judge. page judge. judge. weather the case is fit to be reported or not?