page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. civil. misc. no. in cpla. no. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan, gilgit. secretary agriculture, livestock and fisheries gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. secretary home and services gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. secretary finance gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. petitioner s. dr. muhammad zaboor ex director animal husbandry department of livestock (ldd) and dairy development gilgit baltistan, gilgit. respondent. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) orde against the impugned .. service tribunal gilgit baltistan in service appeal no. whereby accepting the appeal petitioner have been directed to prepare working paper for promotion of respondent from .. to .. against the vacant post director husbandry (livestock) gilgit baltistan bps -. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the petitioners. dr. muhammad zaboor respondent is present in person. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. the learned advocate general contends that the respondent filed a service appeal in gilgit -baltistan service tribunal claiming proforma promotion against the post of director animal husbandry (live stock) bps on the grounds that after bifurcation of directorate of agriculture into three directorates i.e. agriculture, live stock page fisheries, two posts of directors animal husbandry (live stock) fisheries were created. the respondent was assigned the duty of director animal husbandry on .. on current charge basis and he retired on .. attaining the age of superannuation in the post of deputy director animal husbandry. he submits that upon hearing, the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal vide its .. in appeal no. accepted the appeal of the respondent while directing the petitioner to prepare working papers for promotion of the respondent from .. to .. against the vacant post of director animal hu sbandry (live stock) bps alongwith all back benefits including pensionary benefits. the learned advocate general also contends that the impugned .. the learned service tribunal gilgit -baltistan is not sustainable on he ground that the respondent had not filed departmental appeal before the competent authority and the respondent filed an application before the departmental promotion committee (dpc) which is not a competent forum. he also submits that the appeal filed the respondent was time barred and the respondent was retired as deputy director animal husbandry which he accepted and availed the pensionary benefits as well. the learned service tribunal did not consider the above mentioned points while passing the impugned judgment. page we have heard the learned advocate general at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal. in our cons idered view the impugned judgment the learned service tribunal gilgit baltistan is well reasoned and well founded. no interference is warranted into it. the learned advocate general could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment. consequently we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. the impugned .. in appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan service tribunal is maintained. the petition is dismissed. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?