page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. muhammad musa others respondents. present: the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general and -on-record for the petitioners. imran hussain advocate and on-record for respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil revision filed by the petitioner was dismissed in limini, hence, this leave to appeal. this ourt vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent plaintiff filed a civil suit no. in the court of learned civil the page petitioner defendant contested the suit on the ground that land under khewat no. measuring kanals and marlas situated at beroun line was mutated in the name of chief secretary gilgit -baltistan vide mutation no. out of which kanals and marlas was transferred in the name of commandant frontier constabulary vide mutation no. dated .. vide transfer ord er no. rc-() the learned trial court considering the above facts, decreed the civil suit in favour of the respondent plaintiffs. being aggrieved by and di ssatisfied with the said decree, the petitioner filed civil first appeal no. in the learned district feeling aggrieved, the petitioner filed civil revision no. before the learned chief court. upon hearing, the lea rned chief court also dismissed the said civil revision in limini. the learned advocate general submits that the disputed property in question has a lready been mutated in the name of the petitioner vide khasra nos. the disputed property in vide khasra nos. and and khiwat mutation nos. and respectively which is evident from the revenue record. the respondent have no right over the disputed property. per learned advocate general, the orders the three learned courts below were altogether different versions, hence, the same are not sustainable. he submits that the petitioner were condemned unheard while passing the above page referred orders by the three courts below, therefore, the said orders are no tenable in the eyes law. he prays that the concurrent findings of the learned courts below may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, the learned counsels for the respondent sup port the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. they cont end that the case of the petitioner was is hopelessly barred by time and limitation. per learned counsels, the then naib tehsildar, gilgit has in his statement recorded on .. before the learned trial court admitted in cross -examina tion that mutation of the suit property as per claims of the respondent were attested and was given kanals land with the approval of commissioner in the general distribution. the further contends that when facts are admitted no further investigation a nd inquiry into the matter was required. they add that the learned trial court had appointed commission for demarcation and ascertainment of the disputed land and whose report also reflects that almost kanals of lands is in possession of the respondents. they submit that the learned chief court has rightly dismissed the civil revision of the petitioner being barred by time. they pray that the concurrent findings of the learned courts below ma pleased be maintained to meet the ends of justice. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through concurrent findings of the learned courts below. in our considered page view, a factual controversy is involved which can only be resolved after recording of evidence on disputed land in the learned civil court. further, the learned courts below have miserably failed to appreciate the evidence on record. in view of the above discussions, we allow this appeal and the same is remanded back to the learned trial court, gilgit to hear and decide the same in its own merits in accordance with law. consequently, all the three judgments orders i.e. the impugned judgment .. the learned chief court in civil revision no. the .. in civil first appeal no. the learned district .. in civil suit no. the learned civil the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.