page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. c. misc. no. c. misc. no. c. misc. no. c. misc. no. in civil appeal no. in cpla.no. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. secretary health gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. director health gilgit region gilgit. district health officer gilgit, distric t. petitioners. jamsheed alam shah sahib caste sheen village khaltaro haramosh tehsil district gilgit. naveed hussain mirza khaltaro haramosh tehsil district gilgit. respondent s. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, read with supreme appellate court enabling rules against the impugned judgment .. division bench chief court gilgit baltistan in writ petition no. whereby the writ petition filed by the respondent has been accepted and the void appointment order of cadre forcibly and illegally obtained by respondent held valid and cancellation office order of petitioner vide no. dho estb dated .. set aside. present: the advocate general alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. malik shafqat wali senior advocate on behalf of the respondent no. page date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition has been arisen out of the impugned judgment .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan in writ petition no. whereby the said writ petition was allowed and the cancellation .. regarding the appointment of the respondent no. as grade was set aside declaring the same as ille gal and without lawful authority. the petitioner feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent. in the meantime, on the application of the petitio ners .. of this court who was earlier inadvertently inserted as petitioner no. the case was fixed for final arguments on .. and upon hearing we con verted the petition into an appeal and the same was dismissed accordingly. the learned advocate general submits that the petitioner had already appointed two family members of the respondent no. in return of his land which was acquired by the provincial government for the construction of civil dispensary khaltaro district gilgit. the petitioner upon knowing the fact has rightly cancelled the appointment order of the respondent no. vide office order no. -dhq estb dated ... he also submits that the newly arrayed respondent was appointed as page grade purely on merit basis while adopting the prescribed law and rule. he further submits that the respondent no. was not qualifying for the said post being a minor against which he was inadvertently been appoin ted which was later on reversed keeping in view this ground. he finally submits that the impugned judgment .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is not sustainable a nd liable to be set aside being the said is the result of misconception of law and misreading non -reading of the facts of the case. on the other hand, learned senior advocate appearing on behalf of the respondent no. supports the impugned judgment order as according to him the same is well reasoned and well founded. he contends that no interference into the said impugned judgment order is warranted in the interest of he contends that additional documents hav been submitted by him in which the copy of the cnic and school leaving certificate of the respondent no. has been attached. the careful perusal of the said documents reveals that the respondent was not minor (below the age of seventeen years) at the ime of his appointment as grade in civil dispensary khaltaro district gilgit. learned advocate for respondent no. also supports the impugned judgment .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. he submits that page the said impugned order may please be maintained being well reasoned and in accordance with law and facts. we have heard the learned advocate general gil git- baltistan as well as both the learned counsels for respondent no. at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned judgment .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan could not find any illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. consequently, we conv erted this petition into an appeal and the same was dismissed vide our short ... these are the reasons for the said short order. in view of the above discussions the impugned judgment .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court was also maintained vide the said short order. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?