page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. provincial government others petitioners. abdul manaf muhammad musa chorit astore respondents. present: the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general and -on-record for the petitioners. johar ali khan ad vocate -on-record for respondent. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has been directed against the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the said writ petition filed by the petitioner was accepted by directing the petitioner to change revert th contingent service of the respondent into contract from 1st december, alongwith pay benefits and also directed the petitioner to appoint adjust the respondent against the post of suc bps on regular basis. the petitioner being aggrieved by and issatisfied with, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. page granted leave to appeal. the notice was issued to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the instant proceedings are that the respondent was initially appointed as contingent paid staff against the post of ldc bps in the office the deputy director lg rd district astore vide office ... later on, the contingent services of the respondent were converted into contractual services as suc bps by the director lg rd gilgit region for a period of one () year vide office ... after expiry of the said period, the services of the respondent were again converted into contingent paid basis at a fix pay of rs. per month vide office ... being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, the respondent filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court. upon hearing, the learned chief court accepted the said writ petition. feeling aggrieved, the petitioner filed this leave appeal. the learned advocate general submits that the respondent was engaged on contingent basis to look after the office work till appointment of regular employee after advertisement and test interview. he also submits that since factual controversy is involved in this case which can only be resolved after recording eviden ce. further an alternate remedy was is available to the respondent which he has not availed. further, no departmental appeal has been filed by the respondent. per learned advocate general, the writ does not lie in circumstances. he further submits page that the competent authority i.e. the then chief secretary gilgit baltistan has directed to advertise the posts from bps to from the respective union councils. he adds that the suit post was vacant in union council qamri while the respondent belongs to union council rehmanpore as such in presence of directives of the competent authority, the respondent could not be adjusted against the said post. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned .., hence, the same is not tenable in law. he prays that the said impugned judgment may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment the learned chief court. he contends that many posts of suss were created for district astore and the same were initially filled in by appointing on contingent basis. per learned counsel, the other contingent colleagues of the respondent were appointed adjusted against the post on regular basis bu the respondent was ignored by the petitioner inspite of the recommendation of petitioner no. i.e. deputy director, lg rd district astore. he reiterates that the petitioner instead of regularizing the services of the respondent, changed his services into contractual basis but later on his contractual status was again changed into co ntingent before ending of the expiry of contractual period. he submits that the learned chief court has rightly accepted the writ petition of the respondent. page he prays that the impugned judgment the learned chief court may pleased be maintained to meet the ends of justice. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the materials on record and gone through the impugned judgment the learned chief court. the careful perusal of the case file transpires that the respondent has been appointed as suc bps on contract basis against the vacant post for a period of one () year by an unauthorized officer i.e. directo lg rd gilgit region who admittedly was is not competent to appoint the respondent. we are in agreement with the contentions raised by the learned advocate general. in our considered view, the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned in view of the above discussions, we allow this appeal. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is set aside. the respondent may approach the competent court of law for redressal of their grievances, if he so advised. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.