page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. -ud-din, judge. cpla. no. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan. the secretary education gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. the secretary home, services law gilgit -baltistan. the director education gilgit -baltistan. petitioners. mst. yasmin sher wali resident of punial district ghizer presently employee as instructor at element ary college for women gilgit. respondent. leave to appeal under article no. of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order read with enabling articles of gilgit -baltistan supreme appellate court rules against the .. chief court gilgit -baltistan in writ petition no. whereby the learned chief court has accepted the writ petition. for setting aside the impugned judgment by converting this leave to appeal into appea and accepting the appeal for the interest of justice, law equity. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith legal advisor, education department gilgit -baltistan for the petitioners. date of hearing: --. order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj this leave to appeal has been filed after a delay of three () months and page ten () days by the provincial government through the chief secretary, gilgit -baltistan etc. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan submits that after passing the impugned .., the law order situation in gilgit city remained tense and the concerned officers officials could not obtain copy of the said impug ned judgment and other relevant documents within time. he further submits that due to the aforementioned facts, the preparation of the impugned judgment has not come into their knowledge. he contends that after obtaining the certified copy of the said imp ugned judgment, the law and order situation in gilgit city has again become tense due to which the concerned officers could not take permission to file petition from the competent authority in time which also caused delay. he finally submits that the de lay for filling this leave to appeal was neither deliberate nor intentional but it was due to unavoidable circumstances beyond the control of the petitioners. he prayed that if the delay is not condoned, the petitioner department will suffer irreparable loss. we have heard the learned advocate general at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned judgment as well as the endorsement of the record keeper of learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan. as per record, the impugned judgment was announced on .., the application for page obtaining certified copies was moved and submitted on .. after a delay of one month and six () days, the copy of the said judgment was prepared on .. and the same was received on .., whereas the petition was filed on ... the explanation offered by the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan is not acceptable in the above circumstances. we have been fortified from the guidelines laid down by the scmr scmr wherein even one day unexplained delay was not condoned. the leave to appeal is accordingly refused being hopelessly time barred. the leave refused. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?