page in the supreme appel late court, gilgit -baltistan (appellate jurisdiction) cpla no. chief judge. judge. judge. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit -baltistan. secretary education gilgit -baltistan. deputy secretary education gilgit -baltistan. director education gilgit. deputy director education gilgit. deputy director education astore. petitioner (bs -) muhammad shafa, girls high school no. gilgit. (bs -) sardar, girls high school no. gilgit. (bs -) ali mardan, girls high school naikoi, gilgit. (bs -) syed shamshad hussain, girls middle school, nagaral, gilgit. teacher (bs -) delawar khan, girls middle school, jutial, gilgit. teacher (bs -) muhammad sher, gi rls middle school, khommer, gilgit. mst. nighat parveen est (bs -) mustafa, girls primary school, noor colony, jutial, gilgit. mst. tanveer begum tgt (bs -) abdul munaf, girls middle school, konodas, gilgit. mst. chashman pari tgt (bs -) mu hammad hussain, girls middle school, mayoon, hunza. mst. farida begum mt (bs -) fida ali, girls high school, skardu. mst. imrana est (bs -) muhammad muslim, girls middle school, sonikote, gilgit. mst. rukhsana ghafoor est (bs -) abdul ghafor, girls middle school, jutial, gilgit. respondent leave appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and sel governance) order, read wit provisions of supreme appellate co urt rules against the ex -parte impugned order passed in limini by the chief court page gilgit -baltistan in writ petition no. etc. present: advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the petitioners. date of hearing: .. judgment rana muhammad arshad khan, cj: the petition in hand has been preferred against the .., the learned division bench of the -baltistan, whereby, the writ petition no. filed under article of gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, was admitted for regular hearing and by way of interim relief, suspended the operation of repatriation ... shorn of unnecessary fact, it is stated that the writ petitioner were transferred in sheer violation of the transfer policy which in terms provides that under the wedlock policy, the husband and wife shall be posted at one place in order to render their services comfortably and to the utter sat isfaction of their superiors with peace of mind and in violation whereof, the executive order the competent authority can be subjected to the scrutiny through judicial review. in this view of the matter the le arned division bench of the baltistan admitted the petition to regular hearing and by suspending the operation of .., competent authority restored the previous position of the writ petitioner. this has necessarily the effect of status quo anti. the learned advocate general appearing for the petitioner states that the transfer order repatriation order in question cannot be page said to be a punishment, particularly when the impugned transfer orders have been passed in exigencies of service by officers empowered under the law, competent to do the same and the writ petition is absolutely not competent. he submits further that posti ng and transfer relate with the terms and conditions of service of the petitioner. the transfer order can, in no manner whatsoever, be taken as punishment. on the other hand the learned counsel has appeared on behalf of the respondent in pursuance of the .. this court and has submitted that the order called in question being the ad -interim order, the petition before this court is not competent. he submits further that the wedlock policy was promulgated in order to accommodate the government servants keeping in view their hardships, particularly, when the female government servant is posted at a place much away from place of posting of her husband or father as the case may be, but the authorities have caused inconvenience to th petitioner while passing the order impugned in writ petition. we have given our conscious thought to the arguments of the learned advocate general as well as the learned counsel for the respondent herein addressed at the bar. the plain reading of art icle of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, which in terms provides the ouster of jurisdiction of all courts including the chief court. in case of tribunal once established, no other court can have the jurisdiction to gra nt any injunction or make any order or entertain any proceedings in respect of any matter falling within the jurisdiction of tribunal as the legislature in its wisdom introduce non obstante clause contained in article -a of the constitution of islamic republic of page pakistan, which in terms provides the ouster of jurisdiction of all courts including the high court. in case of tribunal once established, the said a rticle ousts jurisdiction of other court and the orders the departmental autho rities without jurisdiction or on the basis of mala fide intent can only and solely be challenged before the tribunal. thus, in respect of matters which fall within the administrative court or tribunal set up under explicity of article of the said order of the exclusive jurisdiction remains with the tribunal. but unfortunately, in this part of the area, no tribunal has so far been established, therefore, when one is left with no remedy, the jurisdiction of the chief court can be invoked for the ent ertainment of disputes even though are related with the terms and conditions of service in appropriate cases. much emphasis has been laid that this court will not entertain disputes at ad -interim stage. the superior courts of the country in more than one cases observed that fragmentary decisions should not be challenged as the same are not final decision and final decision cannot be pre -empted. we are in agreement of question raised but the rule would not operate as barrier in every case, exceptions are a lways available. the interference can be made at the a d-interim stage where, the order so passed involves the public interest. in most of the cases, it has been noticed that the chief court granted injunction and adjourned the case sine die without fixati on of dates which may take years together in making final disposal. in such situations we are inclined to entertain the petition and decide the same on merit. the core issue involved in these cases is that the competent authority at the apex, in passing rders, violated the wedlock policy drawn by the administrative department and directed the female page teachers or their husbands to march to far flung areas which definitely resulted in inconvenience and thus the purpose of policy was drawn by administrative epartment to provide guidelines to run the business. it is very essential to be seen that the said policy would qualify as statutory rules, capable of creating rights and obligations, enforceable at law and for this purpose, departmental instructions must have been issued by the same authority who, in law has the jurisdiction to issue the policy in exercise of powers under the relevant provisions of law. for instance each department has its own minister to sit as a supervisory head over the department but a the same time he does not have the jurisdiction either to frame rules or the policy, capable of creating any right or jurisdiction. no doubt weight may be given to the wedlock policy in public interest but only where posts are available for adjustment of civil servant s. in case of non -availability, civil servants have no conceivable right to invoke the jurisdiction of chief court and to get administrative orders corrected on the anvil of jurisdiction of judicial review. the discretionary power of the su perior courts is fundamentally designed to correct errors but in case of some practical difficulty, relief being discretionary, the court would refuse to intervene where grant of interim relief would result injustice. the superior courts while exercising discretionary powers is under obligation to foster justice, preserve rights and to make a correction of a wrong thing and keeping this object in view, may be in equity, set aside the judgment of subordinate courts in order to do complete the net shell of what has been discussed in the preceding paragraphs is that the civil servant is bound to serve anywhere in page compliance with the orders of departmental authority. even the remedy by way of filing a reference in the next higher au thority is available to the aggrieved civil servant and by refusing discretion ary relief, no injustice is likely to be caused to such aggrieved civil servant. in view of what has been discus sed in the preceding paragraphs, he petition in hand is accepted by converting the same into an appeal and after setting aside impugned order, this case is remitted to the alongwith other similar cases, after hearing the respective parties preferably within two months. no order as to cost. chief