page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. qareebullah son of said hussain shah petitioner. federation of pakistan others respondents. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. irfanullah alias umer son of khuda yar petitioner. federation of pakistan others respondents. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. molvi dilbar son of kashkhar others petitioner s. federation of pakistan others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner in all appeals. the deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit for the federation of pakistan in all appeals. the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general for the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan in all appeals. date of hearing: ... date of announcement of judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... all the three petitions have arisen out of the common impugned .. in writ petitions nos. ,, and the learned chief court whereby the said writ petitions page filed by the petitioner were dismissed in limini being meritless. the petition ers being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment filed these petitions for leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the cases were heard on ... briefly, the facts of he case are that the petitioner were booked in case fir no. dated .. and fir no. dated .. registered at police station chilas district diamer. after investigation the challan of the case was submitted in the learned trial ourt i.e. the anti -terrorism court gilgit -baltistan. whereafter on .., the case was shifted transferred to a military court (field general court martial (fgcm) at gilgit. consequently, he petitioner were tried by a field general court martial (fgcm) held at gilgit. the military court convicted sentenced the petitioner and they all were awarded death sentence except petitioner namely habib -ur-rehman, who was awarded years rigorous imprisonment. the judgment of the military court was announc ed on ... the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said order filed appeal before the military court of appeal which upon hearing was also dismissed vide order ... whereafter the petitioner invoked the jurisdiction of he learned lahore high court rawalpindi bench by filing writ petition no. which was dismissed on .. for want of jurisdiction. the petitioner again filed writ petitions in the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan page contending therein that the petition may be declared maintainable in terms of the law laid down by the the learned chief court upon hearing dismissed the writ petitions of the petition ers in limini declaring the same as meritless. (fgcm) without hearing the petitioner and supplying any documents of the case which is against the administration of criminal he also submits that the petitioner were convicted in violation of pakistan army act, (amended act) hence, the trial was illegal and without lawf ul authority. per learned counsel, the learned chief court dismissed the writ petitions of the petitioner on the basis of one case reported as pld sc cited by the prosecution whereas the case laws relied upon by the petitioner have been ignored despite the same were applicable. he submits that the learned chief court did not consider the legality of the de -novo trial by the military court which is against the law. the learned chief court failed to apply its judicial mint to appreciate th merit of the case and authority of the functionaries while transferring the case to the military court with special reference to the constitutional and legal status of gilgit -baltistan application of federal laws in this region for trying the case unde pakistan army act. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error while exercising its jurisdiction page under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, hence, the impugned judgment is not tenable in law. he prays that the said impugned judgment may graciously be set aside. while saying so he relied upon the case laws reported as pld sc pld sc pld sc pld sc scmr plj sc scmr pld sc and cmr on the other hand, the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit and the learned advocate eneral gilgit baltistan support the impugned judgment. they contend that the military courts have been established through 21st amendment act, and the pakistan army act, amendment to eradicate the terrorism and to protect the integrity and security of the country. per learned counsels, the trial of the hard core terrorists criminals is not an encroachment of the fundamental rights of the petitioner convict. they further contend that the learned chief court has rightly dismissed the writ petition of the petitioner while passing the impugned judgment. they pray that the said impugned judgment may pleased be maintained. in support of their contentions they cited the case law reported as pld sc we have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment the learned chief court. we have also gone through the case laws referred by both the learned counsels for the respective parties. the case laws relied upon by the page learned counsel for the petitioner are distinguishable whereas the case law cited by the learned deputy attorney gener al for pakistan at gilgit and the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan is applicable. the learned counsel for the petitioner also could not point out any infirmity or illegality in the said impugned judgment. in our considered view, the impugned judg ment the learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded, therefore, no interference is warranted into it. in view of the above discussions, we convert these petitions into appeals and the same are dismissed. consequently, the common i mpugned .. in writ petitions nos. ,, and the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeals are dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.