page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. the registrar co -operative society gilgit -baltistan. the general manager co -operative bank head office gilgit. the manager co -operative bank sumayar branch, nagar. the assistant manager co -operative bank branch, nagar. petitioner defendants. ghulam abbas muhammad shafi tal gulmit nagar tehsil skindarabad, district hunza nagar. respondent appellant plaintiff. leave to appeal u a of gilgit baltistan (empowerment self governance) order against the judgment order earned chief court gilgit baltistan dated -- in c.f.a no. whereby the learned chief court accepted the appeal of the respondent plaintiff in absence of the petitioner respondent and remanded the case back to trial court. by converting this leave to appeal into appeal and accepting the appeal this -- in c.f.a no. and maintain the judgment 05 -- of the civil to meet the ends of justice, law and equity. present: ali nazar khan aor for the petitioner. date of hearing: --. date of detail judgment: ... page judgment dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj this petition has been filed by the learned counsel for the petitioner calling in question the imp ugned -- the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan in civil first appeal no. wherein, the learned chief court was pleased to accept the appeal of the appellant plaintiff while setting aside the impugned judgment da ted: -- the learned civil who rejected the suit of the plaintiff being not maintainable holding that in view of section cpc and section -a, co-operative societies act the learned civil court nagar has no jurisdiction to entertain the matter in question by allowing the application under order ule of the petitioner bank. the learned civil -- dismissed the suit of the plaintiff declaring the same not maintainabl e. the said suit was filed by respondent for declaration and perpetual injunction on --. the present petitioner filed an application under order rule cpc, which upon hearing was accepted by the learned trial court nagar on the ground that the respondent obtained bank loan from the petitioner but he failed to return the same amounting rs. hence it attracts the provisions of section -a of o-operative societies act he further submits that the registrar co -operative so cieties has the jurisdiction to entertai the case as the same pertaining to page recovery of financial loans. the leave to appeal was granted by this court on -- and today the case was finally heard. the learned counsel for the petitioner submitt ed that respondent plaintiff obtained bank loan from petitioner and failed to return the loan along with interest thereon. on failure of respondent to repay the loan, the petitioner no. filed case of recovery before the learned registrar. despite receipt of notices, the respondent chose not to appear before the petitioner no.. on the contrary, the respondent filed civil suit against petitioner for declaration perpetual injunction. the petitioners, however, filed applications under order rule c.p.c, in the learned trial court for rejection of the plaint on the ground that under sections, -a co-operative societies act, and section c.p.c, the civil court has no jurisdiction to entertain cases against registrar co operative so cieties and co -operative banks in the cases disputes pertaining to the business of the society. the learned trial court after hearing the parties rejected dismissed the plaint suit of the respondent plaintiff. the respondent plaintiff being aggrieved by he said .. filed civil first appeal no. before learned chief court gilgit baltistan, who upon hearing both the parties, accepted the appeal vide .. and remanded the case to trial court in absence of the petition ers, page hence this leave to appeal before this apex court with the pray er that the said impugned -- be set aside as the same was passed on the basis of mi sconception of law. he further contended that the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan misunderstood the relevant provisions of law and the basic principle of hence, liable to set aside whereas the --, the learned civil on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supported that the impugned .. the learned division bench of chief court, gilgit -baltistan in cfa no. and submits that the same be upheld whereas the .. the learned civil we have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan in cfa no. as well as the judgment decree dated -- the learned trial cour nagar. in our considered view the judgment of the learned trial court is well page reasoned and well founded. no infirmity and illegality has been pointed out by the learn ed counsel for the respondent. consequently, the judgment decree dated .., passe by the learned civil --, the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan in cfa no. is set aside. consequently, the appeal was allowed by our short .. and hese are the reasons for the same. the appeal is allowed. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?