page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr.pla. no. rehmat azeem son of khoja khan gullapur district ghizer. petitioner. nasir iqbal son of muhammad zaman damote juglote district gilgit. the state. respondents. present: johar ali khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith ali nazar khan advocate on-record on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned .. in criminal revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court, whereby the sai criminal revision filed by the petitioner was dismissed in limine being meritless while maintaining the .. in session case no. the learned sessions the brief facts of the case are that the firs no. and were registered against the respondent accused at police station city gilgit under section ppc and arm ordinance. during the pendency of the case the respondent accused filed appl ication before the learned trial court claiming page juvenility and upon hearing the learned trial court declare the respondent as juvenile on the basis of academic certificates of the accused and on the basis of the assessment certificate issued by the doctor vide ... the petitioner being aggrieved filed criminal revision no. in the learned gilgit baltistan chief court which was dismissed while upholding the impugned order the learned sessions court gilgit. the learne counsel for the petitioner submits that the order the learned trial court in session case no. dated .., which was upheld by the learned chief court in criminal revision no. dated .. are not sustainable as both the learned courts fell in error by declaring the accused nasir iqball as juvenile based on his school leaving certificate and subsequent report of medical board wherein he was determined the age of around years. he further submits that the school leavi ng certificate can be maneour ed, however, according to the nic issued by nadra, the date of birth of the accused is 1st january from calculation of the age of the accused through the record of nadra is years, months and days. he further submits that the respondent has concealed the facts from the learned trial court terming himself as juvenile inspite of the fact that the accused is having cnic no. -. according to the said cnic the age of the respondent accused was above years at the time of commission of the offence. on the contrary learned trial court as well as the learned gilgit -baltistan page chief court declared the respondent accused as juvenile which is against the law. he further submits that the responden accused has also violated the fundamental principle of law who seeks equity must come with clean hands the respondent accused does not deserve leniency and the learned courts below did not consider this aspect of the case. he further submits that the medical board constituted by the learned trial court assess ed the age of the accused round about years. the learned trial court as well as the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court misconceived the version of the medical board while extending juvenile fa cility to the accused. he further submits that the school certificate showing date of birth furnished by the accused has not been sent to nadra for verification by the learned trial court. he prayed that the judgments of both the court below are not tenable, hence, the same are to be set aside. on the other hand, the learned advocate general alongwith .. in criminal revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. they contend that during the hearing of the case, the accused respondent preferred an application to the learned trial court seeking order of the court to the affect that the respondent accused was juvenile in terms of the section of the juvenile they further contend that the learned trial court on the basis of the school certificate and on the basis of the assessment report page submitted by the medical board he was declared as juven ile. they also contend that it is evident from the report furnished by the medical board that the age of accused was round about years, the word round about indicates near to years not above years. the medical certificate and school leaving certificate of the respondent corro borates each other. they finally contend that the impugned .. in criminal revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the .. the learned trial court may graciously be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. in support of their arguments they relied upon the case laws reported as mld pcr. lj scmr pld mld cr. lj cr. lj cr. lj and cr. lj this court by consent of the parties vide .. sent the cnic in question to nadra authorities for its verification and report thereto. the nadra authorities submitted report on .. through the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit verifying the date of birth of accused nasir iqbal as ... as per reports of nadra accused nasir iqbal was major the time of committing the alleged offence. we have heard both the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, peru sed the record of the cas file, gone through the order the courts below, the reports of the medical board dated .. and report of nadra as well as page gone through the case laws. we observed that cnic no. duly issued by the national data base and reg istration authority (nadra) has been deliberately concealed by the respondent accused. according to the said cnic the age of the respondent accused is above years at the time of commission of the alleged offence which has been verified by the nadra on the direction of this court vide ... in view of the above discussions, we converted this petition into an appeal and the same was allowed vide our short ... consequent thereto, the impugned .. in criminal revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the .. the learned sessions were set aside. these were the reasons for our short order ated ... the petition is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?