page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. cpla. no. rifaqat ali son of ata resident of gircha gojal hunza. mujahid ali gohar haider pura gilgit. muhammad nasir son of ghulam hussain danyore gilgit. tajuddin son of muhammad raza konodas gilgit. petitioners. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan gilgit. secretary forest gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. ranger forest officer khunjrab. director khunjrab. wildlife management officer khunjrab. sherbaz chowkidar son of faqir shah nagaral gilgit. shafiullah son of qalb ali morkhun gojal. asgha khan son of ali rehmat nazimabad. sultan mahmood son of niaz morkhun gojal. liaqat ali son of ali rehbar. khalid aman son of gohar aman. muhammad ibrahim son of wazir baig bagorote. maqsood son of faqir shah. rehbar karim son of ghulam baqir. syed agha hussain son of syed abbas mosvi. muhammad farooq son of abdul rashid game watcher posted at dahee head quarter officer khunjrab national park gojal hunza. respondents. leave to appeal under article of gilgi t-baltistan (empowerment self governance) order against the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court in civil misc. no. of review no. whereby the learned chief court has dismissed the re view petition of petitioner holding the same not considerable. present: the advocate general on behalf of the respondents. page date of hearing: ... order. this leave to appeal was directed against the impugned .. in civil misc. no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. whereby the said civil misc was dismissed being meritless. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case was fixed for final arguments today on ... the learned counsel for the petitioner subm its that the petitioner filed a writ petition no. before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court for regularization of their services against the post of game watcher in khunjrab national park at par with other employees of the said line and cadr alongwith back benefits as granted to the respondent no. to he further submits that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court partially allowed the said writ petition to the extent of adjustment of the petitioner on permanent footing vide ... wherein the plea of the petitioner for grant of back benefits was not allowed. he further submits that the petitioner filed review petition no. before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court instead of filling leave to appeal before this court which upon hearing was also dismissed vide impugned .., page hence, this leave to appeal. he also submits that the said impugned order the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is the result of miscon ception of law and misreading non reading of the facts of case, therefore, the same is not tenable and liable to be set aside. on the other hand the learned advocate general appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. he contends that the same is required to be maintained being well reasoned and well founded, therefore, no interference is warranted into it to meet the ends of justice. he also contends that there wa no justification to file a review petition against the judgment passed in writ petition no. before the same court instead of filling leave to appeal before this the learned counsel for the petitioner could not satisfy the same in response to the query of this court vide this court .. and .., hence, the impugned order is required to be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case fi le and gone through the impugned .. in civil misc. no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. we are in agreement with the learned advocate general as the learned counsel for the petitioner could not satisfy this court with regard to filling of review petition before the learned gilgit -baltistan page chief court instead of filling leave to appeal before this court. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality infirmity in the impugned order as well, hence, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. in civil misc. no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is maintained. the petition is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?