page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at gilgit cr.p.l.a. no. chief judge. -ud-din, judge. judge. sadaqat ali son of walayat ali resident of chongra tehsil district astore. petitioner complainant inspector general of police gilgit -baltistan. superintendent of police district astore. hamidullah asi io of the case. hafeez sho police station astore bonji. hafeez asi district special branch astore. janan. farman son of niamat. iqbal. imtiaz son of farman. mubashir israr son of janan resident of village chongra district astore. accused respondent charges under section -b p.p.c hudood ordinance vide f.i.r. no. police station city astore. leave to appeal under article of (empowerment and self governance) order against the impugned judgment learned single .i.r. no. has been quashed and on the bas is of the above judgment of the learned chief court the application of the petitioner for re -investigation of the above criminal case is also disposed off by the learned chief court vide judgment present: advocate for the petitioner. advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the respondents. haji jamal khan, advocate on record. sho police station astore. date of hearing: --. page order raja jalal -ud-din, this petition has been preferred for the re -investigation of the criminal case registered at police station astore vide f.i.r. no. under section -b. p.p.c and hudood ordinance the complainant of case namely sadaqat ali son of walayat ali alleged that his legally wedded wife mst. raheela baigum had been abducted by the respondent no. to the investigation of the case was interested to hamidullah asi, who recorded the statements of pw who are not acquainted with the facts of the case and planted fabricated witnesses. based on the said statements the investigating officer released all the accused under cr.p.c. the chief court gilgit -baltistan quashed the stated f.i.r for no tangible reasons and without any information nor not ice to complainant. the petitioner seeks re -investigation of the case through an impartial and honest police official. the counsel for the petitioner is heard at great length and the record has been perused in the light of the same. the f.i.r which has een registered on the complaint of sadaqat ali reveals that his wife namely mst. raheela was missing in the morning of her firs night from his home and requests investigation against named persons who may have abducted her. he also found missing rs. (four lac seventy housand) hard cash and ornaments worth to rs. (seven lac). on the complaint of the petitioner investigations were started. in this connection the lady raheela was searched and found in cattle shed. the investiga ting officer recorded the statement under section cr.p.c and latter on under section cr.p.c. the statement of mst. raheela does not give any reflection or indication of her page abduction by anybody but states that she had run away from the house of her husband on her own sweet will. one mubashir son of janan was alleged to have abducted the lady raheela. in the meantime said mubashir son of janan preferred an application under section -a cr.p.c for the quashment of the f.i.r. no. police stat ion astore. the said petition was adjudicated by the single bench of the chief court gilgit -baltistan dated whereby the f.i.r. no. was quashed. the complainant sadaqat ali walayat ali had moved various applications against the inve stigating officer for his biased investigation before the concerned police officials but to no avail hence an application under section -a cr.p.c for re investigation of the case was preferred on which was disposed off vide the findings of he single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan vide its the trial -investigation of the said case is not possible as the f.i.r has already been quashed vide the petitioner was also advised to set aside the order which is in field and re -investigation of a case cannot take place where there is a non-existent f.i.r. we have given thorough thought to the contentions raised and find as under, the contents of the f.i.r alongwith the other statements placed on file, we find no connection of mubashir son of janan for abduction, inciting, enticing the lady to run away from the wedded husband thereby no criminal onus can be placed against him for he commission of the offence. page the fresh investigation, as desired would not have met any end in the application of the individual mubashir son of janan. the statement of the lady mst. raheela under section and cr.p.c does not give any indication th at the lady raheela had been abducted. in a net shell no case of further investigation is required as such. regarding the quashment of the f.i.r by the chief court gilgit -baltistan has not been hotly perused by the complainant as he was given the option by the chief court gilgit -baltistan in i ts hence the same need not be discussed. the lady raheela has also preferred a civil suit for dissolution of marriage against the petitioner in the civil court as informed by the counsel for the parties. keeping in view the above stated facts, we feel that the petitioner has got no case for interference by this court. hence dismissed. announced: --. chief