page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla. no. safa son of bakha. gul muhammad son of safa parikha thore district diamer. petitioners. the state respondent. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla. no. altaf son of muhammad diyar parikha thore district diamer. the state. petitioners. safa others respondents. present: munir ahmed advocate and -on- record for the petitioner in criminal appeal no. and for the respondent in criminal appeal no. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the state. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been directed against the common impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court whereby the appeal of the petitioner no. was dismissed by maintaining the conviction sentences page awarded to them by the learned additional sessions to rs. by accepting the criminal revision no. to this extent. in case of non-payment of the amount of compensation, the petitioner no. shall undergo further imprisonment for months. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court filed th is leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal in both the petitions. consequently, notices were issued to the respondent in both the connected appeals and the case was heard today. notices were also issued to respondent no. in criminal appeal no. namely mir wali and riaz sons of bakha residents parikha thore district diamer who were released after serving their sentence awarded to them by the learned trial court vide .. the said respondent were also present in court today. the brief facts of the case are that the complainant namely altaf hussain son of diyar resident of prikha thore chilas district diamer lodged an fir no. at police station thore on .. at about hours. the complainant stated that at about hours mst. jahan wife of safa left her cattle in our field which were got away by one shafi son of ghafoor by pelting stones etc. the said mst. jahan informed about the above incident to the inmates of her house namely safa, mir wali, riaz sons of bakha, page gul muhammad son of safa who came out of their house equipped with lethal weapons with the common intention to kill the complainant parties. the ab ove named accused opened fire which hit his brother namely jamsheed present there who succumbed to injuries on the spot while mst. zulaikha daughter of mir khan was hit by the fire of mir wali and riaz respectively. who got injured. after completion of the investigation the challan of the case was submitted by the police before the court of competent jurisdiction under sections ppc against the respondent accused. the charge against them was framed on .. who shown their innocence and claimed for trial. the prosecution in support of their case against the accused produced and examined twelve () prosecution witnesses. the inquest report, chemical examiner report, fire armed expert report and report of serologist were also produced. the crime weapon were recovered by the police on the pointation of the accused. the empties shells have also been recovered by the police from the place of occurrence. after concluding the prosecution evidence the accused were examined under section cr. pc. the accused had denied the allegation leveled against them but they have not opted to record their stateme nts under section () cr.pc. they have also not produce any witness or evidence in support of their defence. the learned trial court chilas district diamer after appraising the evidence, hearing the learned counsels appearing on page behalf of the respective parties and on proven guilty against the accused convicted them in session case no. vide .., as under: quote in the light of the evidence on the record it is proved that accused safa and gul muhammad have committed the offence under section ppc by committing qatal -e-amad of the deceased jamsheed. however, during cross examination the pws failed to identify whose fire shot was fatal. for the reason while taking the said reason as mitigating circumstance against both the accused, hence, i, convict the accused safa and gul muhammad under section (b) ppc and is sentenced to life imprisonment. the accused is a lso ordered to pay an amount of rs. each to the legal heirs of the deceased as compensation under the provision of sections -a cr.pc failing to pay the same they will undergo further imprisonment for six month r.i. as regard the accused mir wali and riaz, fatal firing was attributed with them at mst. zul aikha and they fully participated in the commission of the offence, hence, they have committed offence under section ppc for attempting to commit of qatal -e-amd so each of them sentenced years each and fine of rs. each. failing to pay the fine each of the accused shall undergo further imprisonment for three years. benefit of section (b) cr. pc extended to the accused. unquote page the above conviction and sentences awar ded by the learned trial court was upheld in appeal revision by learned gilgit -baltistan chief court except the amount of compensation which was enhanced from rs. to rs. by accepting the criminal revision no. to this extent, which is to be paid to the legal heirs of the deceased. the convicts have been attributed specific and direct role in commission of the said brutal murder and injuring the lady. he also submits that the names of the eye witnesses are also mentioned in the fir who during recording their examination -in- chief as well as durin cross examination directly charged the accused attributing them the specific role s. he further submits that the prosecution has proved its case beyond any reasonable doubt by producing eye witnesses, recovery of blood stained earth from the scene of occ urrence, the inquest report, chemical examiner report, fire arm expert report, report of radiologist and the recovery of weapon of crime recovered by the police on the pointation of the convicts safa gul muhammad etc. he also submits that the convicts could not produce any defence in support of their version. he reiterates that all the eye witnesses are independent and inspiring confidence who corroborated each other. he prayed that the criminal appeal no. be page dismissed whereas the criminal appe al no. be allowed and sentences awarded to the respondent no. safa respondent no. gul muhammad may kindly be converted form life imprisonment into death sentence and the conviction sentences i.e. seven () years imprisonment awarded to th respondent no. mir wali respondent no. namely riaz may also be enhanced from seven () years to life imprisonment to meet the ends of justice. the learned advocate general supports the arguments of the learned counsel for the complainant. on the other hand, johar ali khan learned counsel for the respondent in criminal appeal no. support the impugned .. in criminal revision n0. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court whereas the impugned judgment passed in criminal appeal no. is not tenable and liable to set aside as the prosecutio has miserably failed to prove its case beyond the reasonable doubts. they contend that the fir is doubtful as contrary to the facts of case. the post mortem of the dead body of the deceased has not been conducted which creates serious doubt in of prosecution case. the cause of the death is not known as to whether deceased jamsheed xpired due to bullet injuries or otherwise. likewise the injury caused to mst. zulaikha has not been supported by the corroborative evidence and the same has also not been confirmed by the statement of any eye page witness. they contend that the crime weapon recovered from the accused on his pointation has not been proved. the crime weapon was sent to lahore for expert opinion whereas the ballistic report was issued from peshawar. they reiterate that the weapon of offence was sent for expert opinion after cons iderable unexplained delay which also creates doubt in the story of the prosecution. they submit that there are glaring contradictories in the statements of the pws and medical evidences regarding the number of bullets received by the deceased and the inju red lady who were allegedly fired hit by the convict respondent s. they further contend that the respondent no. namely mir wali and riaz have been released after serving their conviction sentences. they finally argue that the case of the prosecution is full of doubts and the benefit of doubts has not been extended to the accused respondent as per parameter laid down by the superior courts in administering criminal they pray that criminal appeal no. be allowed, conviction and entence awarded to the respondent no. may graciously be set aside or alternatively. keeping in view the age factor of the convict the same may graciously be reduced into already undergone and the criminal appeal no. filed against safa, gul muhammad, mir wali and riaz be dismissed. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in criminal page appeal no. criminal revision no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the .. in session case no. the learned additional sessions no illegality, infirmity or misappreciation of evidence was pointed in the concurrent findings of both the courts below by the learned counsels appearing for the convicts appellant respondent in both the appeals. consequently, no interference is warranted. in view of the above discussions, we dismiss both the criminal appeal nos. and filed by both the complainant and the convicted ac cused respectively. consequent thereto, the impugned judgment dated .. passed in criminal appea no. criminal revision no. by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the .. in session case no. the learned additional sessions both the appeals are dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?