page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. -ud-din, judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. safdar enterprise pvt. (limited), col hassan shopping mall gilgit through javed hussain and others. petitioners. the national bank of pakistan through its president head office ii chandrigar road karachi pakistan and others. respondents. present: .. to to the deputy attorney general for pakistan a gb on behalf of respondent no the advocate general gilgi t-baltistan for respondent no.. --. date of announcement of judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj to contends that the impugned .., the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan in writ petition no. was a oid order as per the banking law and vide notification no. a..() read with the enabling articles of the gilgit -baltistan (empowernment a nd self governance) order, while saying so he referred article of the gilgit -baltistan (em powernment and self governance) order, which is reproduced as under: page gilgit -baltistan chief court: (). there shall be a gilgit -baltistan chief court, hereinafter called the chief court, which shall consist of a chief provided that the government of pakistan may from time to time increase the number of judges. jurisdiction of chief court: () the chief court shall have such jurisdiction as is conferred on it by this order or by any other law. (). subject to this order, the chief court may if it is satisfied that no other adequate remedy is provided by law. the learned counsel for the petitioner further contended that neither the chief court, gilgit -baltistan is having the status of a high court of a province nor it has jurisdiction to entertain the cases pertaining to the financial recoveries and above referred articles are silent with regard to the equivalent of the chief court with a high court of a province. however, he also quoted the article (b) of the legal frame work order (as amended according to said article the chief cour had the equivalence to the high court of any province and had the ju risdiction to entertain the case of financial recoveries in terms of sub section of section of the financial institutions (recovery of finances) ordinance read with section of the financial institutions (recovery of finances) adaptation en forcement order he furth er contended that according to the legal frame work order the ministry of kashmir affairs northern area was declared as part and parcel of the page government of northern area now renamunclatured as gilgit baltistan after promulgation of he empowerment and self governance order likewise, the chairman minister for kashmir northern area affairs was the chief executive of gilgit -baltistan. the notification dated 17th june, regarding the adaption enforcement of the financial institution (recovery of finance) ordinance by the ministry of kashmir affairs through its deputy secretary is also illegal and the same has not been issued by the government of gilgit -baltistan and in terms of sub section of sect ion of the financial institutions (recovery of finances) ordinance read with section of the financial institutions (recovery of finances) adaptation enforcement order the gazette notification should have been issued by the federal governme nt instead of the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan (northern area he further contended that the chief court gilgit -baltistan has also no jurisdiction to entertain such cases as it has not been vested such powers through any special federal law i. e. cpc and cr.pc. he further contended that impugned banking court lacks jurisdiction to entertain the suits pending against the petitioner as per section (b)(ii) of ordinance only a -baltistan empowerment and self governance order instead of providing high court for gilgit-baltistan provides gilgit -baltistan chief court which has page no where in he governance order, been given quivalent status of high court, therefore entrustments of power of banking court by the -judice. that the declaration of banking court by chief court without any notification in official gazette by government of gilgit -baltistan, as banking court is also corrum non-judice therefore the same is lack of jurisdiction to entertain the suits pending against petitioner s. that the honorable that the recovery suits against the petitioner have been filed by the respondent no. without ado pting the proper procedure laid down in financial institution ordinance that if the suits in its present form has been let to entertain by the impugned forum as banking court, the petitioner will be prejudiced from their inalienable right of intra -court appeal. he also submits that unless the government of gilgit baltistan issues gazette notification with regard to the establishment of banking court first and thereafter nomination of the banking the impugned judgment date .., the learned chief court, gilgit -baltista in writ petition no. has no legality in the eyes of law and procedure. the page impugned judgment is required to be set aside being not based on facts and law. contended that the functioning and taking cognizance jurisdiction of loan recovery cases by banking courts in gilgit baltistan are illegal, unlawful, without authority and jurisdiction thus ab -initio void, due to non existence of any gazette notification regarding establishment of banking courts through official gazette by the government of gilgit baltistan being competent authority in gilgit baltistan in terms of sub section of section of the financial institutions (recovery of finances) ordinance read with section of the financial institutions (recovery of finances) adaptation enforcement order he further contended that the taking cognizance jurisd iction of bank recovery case of the petitioner and all other cases of the amounts exceeding to million rupees by the honorable illegal and without lawful authority as the honorable -section of section of the financial resources (recovery of finances) ordinance read with section of the financial institutions (recov ery of finances) adaptation order page the learned counsel for the petitioner continues his arguments and contended that directions to respondent no. government of gilgit baltistan to exercise its powers vested in him vide section of the financial i nstitutions (recover of finances) adaptation order read with section of the financial institutions (recovery of finances) ordinance to establish banking courts in gilgit baltistan through proper notification published in official gazette govern ment of gilgit baltistan, and thereafter appoint banking court judges after consultation with the learned chief judge, chief court, gilgit baltistan. he continued his arguments while saying that the orders of the chief judge, chief court, gilgit baltista dated in civil suit no. of nominating (recovery of loans, advances, credits and finances) act of is totally illegal, unlawful and ab -initio void in the eyes of law. the leaned counsel for the petitioner relied upon a reported case of indian supreme court in case s.c legal aid committee union of india, scc () jt () the learned counsel referred section (legislative powers of the gilgit -baltistan empowerment self governance) order, according to the said referred statues page the fina ncial institution neither included in the list of gilgit baltistan council nor incorporated in the list of gilgit -baltistan legislative assembly. on the other hand the learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the government of gilgit -baltistan being the competent authority after consultation with the learned chief judge, chief court, gilgit baltistan has established the banking court in terms of sub section of section of the financial institutions (recovery of finance) adaption enforce ment order which is lawful and in accordance of the law and procedure, however, in the notification while nominating the said law has erroneously been misquoted with provisions of a repealed law of baking com panies (recovery of loans, advances, credits and finances) act he contended as parameters laid down by the (pld, section, ), as long as th powers to hear and decide a matter vests in a court, mere referred to a wrong provision of law, for invo cation of that power is not a bar to exercise of that power. he stressed on the following points in response to the contentions raised by the learned counsel for the petitioners: sub section of section of the financial institutions (recovery of finance) adaption enforcement order has been adopted and extended to gilgit -baltistan. page that the ministry of kashmir affairs and gilgit baltista affairs is part parcel of federal government and issues notifications ordinances etc on behalf of federal government. the ministry in question is also a coordinates with the federal government and government of gilgit -baltistan. article of the gil git-baltistan empowerment self governance) order, protects continuance of existing laws. the said article is reproduced as under: continuance of existing laws: subject to the provisions of this order, all laws which immediately before the ommencement of this order, were in force in gilgit -baltistan shall continue to be in force until altered, repealed or amended by an act, of the appropriate authority. explanation: in this article: (a). the expression law includes ordinance, orders, rules, bye -laws, regulations and any notification and other legal instruments having the force of law, and (b). the expression in force in relation to any law, means having effect as law whether or not the law has been brought into operation the learn ed counsel for the respondent bank submits that in the light of the above quoted law and procedure, the .., the learned chief court, gilgit -baltista in writ petition no. requires to be maintained as the same is wel reasoned based on facts and law and there is no illegality and infirmity in the judgment in question. he relied upon the reported cases in support of his arguments i.e. pld sc case titled pakistan fisheries ltd karachi others united bank limited, scmr cld and plj sc the learned counsel for the respondent finally concluded his arguments saying that the lengthy arguments on the behalf the petitioner are only for the page sake of creating confusion while challen ging the technicali ties of the law and procedure. he says that there is no ambiguity in the statues with regard to the establishment of banking court in gilgit -baltistan and consequently the nomination of the banking judges consist of high court judge (s) and banking judge (s). the learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit and learned advocate eneral gilgit -baltistan support the impugned judgment the learned chief court gilgit baltistan and adopted the arguments of the learned counse for respondent bank. we have heard both the learned counsels for the respective parties at length as well as the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan and learned deputy attorney general for pakistan at gilgit -baltistan, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned judgment .., the learned chief court, gilgit -baltist an in writ petition no. we have also perused section of the financial institutions (recover of finances adaptation ord er read with section of he financial institutions (recovery of finances) ordinance and provision of a repealed law of banking companies recovery of loans, advances, credits and finances) act of the relevant provisions of the gilgit baltistan (empow erment and self governance) order and the northern areas governance order, in our considered view no illegality and infirmity has been pointed out by the page learned counsel for the petitioner in the impugned .., he learned chief court, gilgit baltist an in writ petition no. the case laws cited by the learned counsel for the respondent bank are applicable, whereas case laws cited by the learned counsel for the petitioner are distinguishable. conseq uently, the petition is converted into an appeal and the same is dismissed being meritless having no sub stance. the impugned judgment in writ petition no. dated .., the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan is maintained. the appeal is dismissed. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?