page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. -ud-din, judge. judge. c. misc. no. in cpla no. the secretary works gilgit -baltistan three () others petitioner s. talib shah thirty five () others respondents. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerme nt self governa nce) order read with enabling provisions of gilgit -baltistan supreme appellate court rules against the impugned order .. the learned chief court gilgit baltistan in suo motu case no. whereby the applicati on filed by respondent has been accepted by coverting it into suo motu the petitioner appellant have been directed to pay compensation to the respondent at the rate of ,, per kanal with compulsory acquisition charges of with compound in terest, price of trees and damages of crops from .. till payment. for setting aside the impugned judgment order converting this leave to appeal into appeal and accepting the appeal holding the same passed without jurisdiction, against facts and law for the ends of justice, law and equity. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith page rehmat ali advocate -on- record on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: --. date of delivery of judgment: ... dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj this leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned judgment in suo moto case no. dated .., the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan whereby the application filed by respondents, has been accepted and the petitioner were directed to pay compensation to the respondent at the rate of rs. ,, per kanal with compulsory acquisition charges of with compound interest, in addition to pay the prices of the trees and damages of crops from .. till date of payment. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan submits that the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan in exercise of its jurisdiction under article of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, was not supposed to enter into the realm of factual controversy and give any opinion verdict thereto. he maintained that under no circumstances the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan could meddle with the affairs in which an adequate and efficacious remedy can be had from the court below. he also submits that article of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, does not provide to the chief court to exercise of suo motu jurisdiction and an order passed in exercise of such jurisdiction shall be corrum -non-judice. page on the other hand, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned judgment and argued that the learned chief court on getting information about infringement of any fundamental right was well within its rights to step in and pass an appropriate order. he contends that where fundamentals rights of the citizens are trampled over, the chief court can exercise of its suo motu jurisdiction. he finally submits that the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan has rightly taken cognizance of the matter and passed an appropriate order redressing the grievances of the persons aggrieved. we have hea rd the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the materials placed on record and gone through the impugned judgment. the question arises as to whether article of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, re ad with article of the constitution of pakistan, expressly or by implication, provides for exercise of suo motu jurisdiction by the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. we have been fortified by the judgment of the imran khattak and others reported as scmr, page and we followed the parameters laid down therein. for convenience we hereby reproduced both the articles i.e. article of the gil git-baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, and article of the constitution of islamic republic of pakistan as under: page under article :- jurisdiction of chief court gilgit baltistan:- () the chief court shall have such jurisd iction as is conferred on it by this order or by any other law. subject to this order, the chief court may if it is satisfied that no other adequate remedy is provided by law:- (a). the government, exercising any power or performing any function in, or in relation to, gilgit -baltistan as may be appropriate for the enforcement of any of the fundamentals rights conferred by this order. on the application of any aggrieved party, make an order. (i). directing a person performing func tions in connection with the affairs of gilgit -baltistan or local authority to refrain from doing that which he is not permitted by law to do, or to do that which he is required by law to do; or (ii). declaring that any act done or proceedings taken by a person performing functions in connection with the affairs of gilgit -baltistan or a local authority has been done or taken without lawful authority, and is of no legal effect; or (b). on the application of any person, make an order. (i). direc ting that a persons in custody in gilgit -baltistan be brought before the chief court so that the court may satisfy itself that he is not being held in custody without lawful authority or in an unlawful manner; or (ii). requiring a persons holding or urporting to hold a public office in connection with the affairs of gilgit baltistan to show under what authority of law he claims to hold that office; or (c). on the application of any aggrieved person, make an order giving such directions to the pe rsons or authority including the council. an order shall not be made under clause () on application made by or in relation to a person in the armed forces of pakistan in respect of his terms and conditions of his service, in respect of any matter arising out of his service or in respect of any action in relation to him as a member of the armed forces of pakistan. page where: (a). an application is made to the chief court for an order under sub clause (a) or sub -clause (c) of clause (); and (b). the court has reason to believe that the making of an interim order would have the effect of prejudicing or interfering with the carrying out of public work or otherwise being harmful to the ublic interest, the court shall not make an interim order unless the advocate general has been given notice of the application and the court, after the advocate general or any officer authorized by him in this behalf has been given an opportunity of being heard, is satisfied that the making of the interim order would not have the effect referred to in sub -clause (b) of this clause. in this article unless the context otherwise requires, the expression person includes anybody pol itic or corporate, any authority of or under control of the council or the government and any court or tribunal other than the gilgit baltistan supreme appellate court, the chief court or a court or tribunal established under a law relating to the armed forced of pakistan. under article jurisdiction of high courts of pakistan: () subject to the constitution, a high court may, if it is satisfied that no oilier adequate remedy is provided by law, (a) on the application of any aggrieved party, ake an order. (i) directing a person performing, within the territorial jurisdiction of the court, functions in connection with the affairs of the federation, a province or a local authority, to refrain from doing anything he is not permitted by law to do, to do anything he is required by law to do; or. (ii) declaring that any act done or proceeding taken within the territorial jurisdiction of the court by a person performing functions in connection with the affairs of the federation, a province or a local authority has been done or taken without lawful authority and is of no legal effect; or (b) on the application of any person, make an order. page (i) directing that a person in custody within the territorial jurisdiction of the court be br ought before it so that the court may satisfy itself that he is not being held in custody without lawful authority or in an unlawful manner; or (ii) requiring a person within the territorial jurisdiction of the court holding or purporting to hold a public of fice to show under what authority of law he claims to hold that office; or on the application of any aggrieved person, make order giving such directions to any person or authority, including any government exercising any power or performing any function in, or in relation to, any territory within the jurisdiction of that court as may be appropriate for the enforcement of any of the fundamental rights conferred by chapter of part ii. () subject to the constitution, the right to move a high court for the enforcement of any of the fundamental rights conferred by chapter of part shall not be abridged. () an order shall not be made under clause () on application made by or in relation to a person who is a member of the armed forces of pakistan. or who is for the time being subject to any law relating to any of those forces. in respect of his terms and conditions of service, in respect of any matter arising out of his service, or in respect of any action taken in relation to him as a member of the armed forces of pakistan or as a person subject to such law. () where (a) an application is made to a high court for an order under paragraph (a) or paragraph (c) of clause (), and (b) the making of an interim order would have the effect of prejudicing or interfering with the carrying out of a public work or of otherwise being harmful to public interest or state properly or of impeding the assessment or collection of public revenues, the court shall not make an interim order unless the prescribed law officer has been given notice of the application and he or any person authorized by him in that behalf has had on opportunity of being heard and page the court, for reasons to be recorde in writing, is satisfied that the interim order --- (i) would not have such effect as aforesaid; or (ii) would have the effect of suspending an order or proceeding which on the face of the record is without jurisdiction. (4a) an interim order made by a igh court on an application made to it to question the validity or legal effe4ct of any order made, proceeding taken or act done by any authority or person, which has been made, taken or done or purports to have been made, taken or done under any law which is specified in part of the first schedule or relates to, or is connected with, state property or assessment or collection of public revenues shall cease to have effect on the expiration of a period of six months following the day on which it is made: provided that the matter shall be finally decided by the high court within six months from the date on which the interim order is made. (4b) every case in which, on an application under clause (), the high court has made an interim order sha ll be disposed of by the high court on merits within six months from the day on which it is made, unless the high court is prevented from doing so far sufficient cause to be recorded. () in this article, unless the context otherwise requires --- person includes any body politic or corporate, any authority of or under the control of the federal government or of a provincial government, and any court or tribunal, other than the supreme court, a high court or a court or tribunal established under a law relating to the armed forces of pakistan; and prescribed law officer means --- (a) in relation to an application effecting the federal government or an authority of or under the control of the federal government, the attorney general, and (b) in any other case, the advocate general for the provence in which the application is made. page a careful perusal of both the articles reproduced above would show that the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan high courts of pakistan would exercise its extr aordinary discretionary constitutional jurisdiction where it is satisfied that, subject to the constitution, no other adequate remedy is provided by law, on the application of a person whether aggrieved or not on an information or on its own knowledge. in view of the above discussion in our considered view the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan cannot exercise suo motu jurisdiction under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self -governance) order, consequently, we converted this petition into an appeal and the same was allowed vide our short ... the respondents, if, aggrieved may approach the proper forum court of law for redressal of their grievances. these were the reasons of our short order. the appeal is allowed. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case fit to be reported or not?