page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. secretary education others petitioners. sikandar khan respondent. present: the advocate general alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. -baltistan. rehmat ali advocate -on-record for respondent. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief co urt whereby the said civil first appeal filed by the petitioner was partially accepted by directing the petitioner to pay compensation of the land of the respondent used for the construction of middle boys school minawar at the prevailing rate at the tim of institution of the suit, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal. the notices were issued to the respondent vide .. and the case is heard today. page briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent filed civil suit no. in the court of learned senior civil ,, (rupees ten lac and twenty thousand only) alongwith compulsory acquisition charges at the rate of per anum. as per averments of the respondent that a piece of land under khasra no. measuring kanals and marlas situated at minawar was obtained by the petitioner for construction of building of boys middle school with the condition that the children of the respondent shall be appointed against the post of grade which may be approved or created in the said middle school. the petitioner in violation of said terms condition, have failed to appoint his children in grade rather they appointed someone else as chowkidar in the said school. upon hearing, the learned trial court decreed the suit in favour of the respondent vide ... the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed civil first appeal no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was partially accepted vide impugned .., hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general alongwith they also submits that the notables of said villages rendered provided land to the page government free of cost with the condition that the respondent or his son would be taken in the service in bps as per prevailing customs traditions of this region which is also available in education department rules poli cy for acquiring such land by providing employment to the donor of his son thereto. per learned counsels, accordingly the son of the respondent as well as the relative of the respondent namely abid hussain faiz ali were appointed vide office order no. dde(glt) () dated ... they submit that the learned courts below fell in error while passing judgments orders. they add that if the land in question is restored to its owner, the students obtaining education in the school shall face great inc onvenience and unbearable difficulty. they submit that the impugned judgment the learned chief court as well as the .. the learned trial court are the result of misreading non reading of the facts of the case and the same are not sustainable. they pray that the concurrent findings of the learned courts below may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, he contends that the petitioner cannot utilize the property of respondent for a public project without compensating him. per learned counsel, no property of a person can be snatched under the law without his free will and independent consent. he adds that the only lawful way is that th page petitioner prepare a fresh award of compensation at prevailing rates of locality and pay it to the respondent in circumstances. he submits that the learned courts below have rightly passed the impugned judgments orders. he prays that the concurrent find ings of the learned courts below may pleased be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the concurrent findings of the learned courts below. the learned advocate general could not point out any infirmity or illegality in the well reasoned impugned judgment the learned chief court, hence, no interference is warranted by this court. in view of the above discus sions, we dismiss this appeal. consequently, the impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.