page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. c. misc. no. in cpla no. secretary law prosecution gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. accountant general gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. ddo customs banking court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. provincial government through chief secretary gilgit baltistan, gilgit. petitioners. aslam khan, superintendant. shukurullah baig, reader. ashiq hussain stenographer. ali musa computer programmer. sher abbas accountant. sadiq ali ahlmed. muhammad mir, nazir. syed ansar ali shah copiest. sajjad hussain copiest. essa khan driver. niaz baig q. shabbir hussain q. shah wali process server. kaleem -ur-rehman process server. karimullah chowkidar. ishaq sweeper, employees of customs banking court gilgit baltistan, gilgit. respondent s. present: the advocate general alongwith -on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... the learned advocate general contends that the respondent are the employees in various categories in bps to of the customs banking court, gilgit -baltistan who filed a writ petition no. with page the contentions that they are entitled to all the benefits i.e. judicial allowance and special judicial allowance equal to three time of their substantive pay scale while setting aside the letter no. so () cbc dated .. issued by the petitioner no. the said writ petition of the respondent was allowed vide impugned ... the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment filed this leave to appeal and the petition was heard today. the learned advocate general contends that the respondent have not obtained the ex -post facto sanction from the competent authority i.e. the government of gilgit -baltistan. he also contends that the -baltistan and the sanction order no. law -so-() cbc dated .. being devoid of legal sanction was not tenable and liable to be set aside. he further contends that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court vide impugned .. in writ petition no. has wrong ly allowed the said writ petition which is require to be set aside being not well reasoned and well founded. we have heard the learned advocate general at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. the learned advocate general could not point out any infirmity and illegality in the page impugned ... the judicial special judicial allowance is paid to all the court staff and officails in all the provinces of pakistan, islamabad capital, as well as to the staff and officers of this court and the supreme court of pakistan. why the gilgit -baltistan government is not treating equally among the equals? in view of the above, we are not inclined to grant leave. the leave to appeal is accordingly refused. the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is maintained. the petitioner are directed to pay release all the back benefits in shape of arrears, if any, and keep paying on account of judicial special judicial allowance to the respondent from the date as extended to other employees staff officers of district judiciary, gilgit -baltistan chief court and supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?