page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. secretary aviation division cabinet division islamabad others petitioner s. muhammad shafa fida muhammad, chowkidar caa, haider pura gilgit respondent. present: airport manager, gilgit for petitioners. malik kifayat -ur-rehman advocate alongwith -on-record for respondent. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief ourt whereby the said writ petition filed by the respondent was allowed by directing the petitioner for preparing pension papers of the respondent assuming his date of birth as ... the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notice to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the responden was initially appointed as chowkidar in the year by the civil page aviation authority (caa) gilgit. the respondent retired vide office order no. gt dated .. on the ground that the he has attained the age of superannuation. being aggr ieved, the respondent filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court contending therein that the said order for retirement of respondent is against facts and record as his actual date of birth is ... he is entitled to com plete his age superannuation accordingly. the petitioner in reply of the said writ petition submitted their parawise comments and denied the claim of the respondent. the cnic number of respondent originally issued to him was -- and form -b of respondent con tains the same number year of his birth i.e. which is also part of his service record. upon hearing, the learned chief court allowed the writ petition filed by the respondent vide impugned .., hence, this leave to appeal. airport manager, gilgit is present in court today and states that the learned chief court did not consider the fact about the date of birth of respondent which is evident from his cnic no. -- and form -b of respondent in which the date of birth is mentioned as he submits that the respondent failed to prove his date of birth through documentary evidence. it is a mystery whose authority the medical board was constituted to assess the age of respondent? where are the recommendation of such medical board who opined the date of birth of respondent as .. instead of ..? he prays that the impugned page .. the learned chief court may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, malik kifayat -ur-rehman appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned order pass ed by the learned chief court. he contends that the petitioner have wrongly retired the respondent as he has not attained the age of superannuation on the basis of his date of birth i.e. ... per learned counsel, the learned chief court has rightly allowed the writ petition no. filed by the respondent vide impugned ... he prays that the said impugned order the learned chief court may pleased be maintained. we have heard airport manager, gilgit as well as the learned counsel for the respondent at length, perused the materials on record and gone through the impugned order the learned chief court. admittedly no medical board was constituted to determine the age of the respondent. no certificate was ever issued by any medical board determining the age of respondent as claimed. on the contrary, from the cnic no. --- of the respondent it is evident that the date of birth was shown as further, the respondent being in government service has not approached the competent authorities for correction of his age within first two years of his services. in our considered view, the impugned order is not well reasoned and well fou nded, hence, the same is not sustainable. page in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief co urt is set aside. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.