page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at gilgit contempt petition no. in s.m.c no. -un-din, judge. judge. shabbbir hussain assistant warden bps fisheries department of fisheries skardu and others. petiti oners sajjad saleem hotiyana chef secretary gilgit -baltstan asif mehmood secretary finance gilgit -baltistan. atta-ur-rehaman secretary services gilgit -baltistan. syed hadi present secretary agriculture, live stock fisheries gilgit baltistan. proforma respondent naib khan ex -secretary agriculture, live stock fishries gilgit baltistan. ghulam abbas director fishries gilgit -baltistan. s.m.c no. with holding of salaries of employees of various departments etc. application for initiating the contempt proceeding against the respondent no. and due to non complaince of the strict directions given by the apex court in its -- regarding the regularization of the services of the applicants and the respondent no. may dealt with in accordance with u.s gilgit baltistan (empowerment self governance order ). page present: advocate general gilgi t-baltistan for the respondents. advocate for petitioners. date of hearing: ---. judgment raja jalal -ud-din, kamal khan was directed to look into the matter of petitioner with the assistance of advocate general gilgit -baltistan and today the secretary fisheries department gilgit -baltistan namely kamal khan informed the court that the petitioner had been adjusted and the proceedings of contempt of court were no longer required. the counsel for the petitioner was confronted who admitted hat the petitioner had been gi ven appointments and the order of this august court was complied with. the counsel for the petitioner was of the view that heir regular employment should have been from the date of order of this apex court i.e. --. we feel that the respondent have complied with the orders of this court without going into the merits and demerits of the case. we feel that the petitioner have duly been compensated by being appointed or regular footing. the petition is disposed off accordingly. announced: --.