page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. c. misc. no. in cr. pla. no. shaban ali others petitioners. mst. zainaba others respondents. present: johar ali khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. rehmat ali advocate -on-record on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court whereby the civil revision of the petitioner was dismissed by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court being meritless, hence, this leave to appeal. briefly facts of the case are that respondent mst. zainaba is the widow of while respondent mst. argis, mst. hoori and mst. mansoori are daughters of the respondents, sheher bano and mst. sheher page bano is daughter of shafa ali. the relationship between the parties is not disputed. shukoor ali who had sons abdullah. in the absence of his share in the property of his father remained in possession of later on, the said abdullah died issueless. the property of being real brother came in possession of whereafter therefore, respondent are entitled to their sharie share in the suit property. the present petitioner through his written statement contested the suit and averred that his father (shafa ali) gifted his property to petitioner while share of (shafa ali) and then with him. it is not disputed that the landed suit property is comprised of the property of abdullah as well as of it is also not disputed that parties to case are legal heirs of the said three persons i.e. abdullah but the only question for determination is whether respondent were deprived from their sharie share in the suit property through a valid gift? the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the respondent filed civil suit no. against page the petitioner for declaration and possession of the suit land on the basis of gift and as alternative their sharie share before the learned civil .. the petitioner being aggrieved filed civil appeal. no before the learned district ... the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the concurrent findings of both the judgments decrees filed civil revision no. before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court which was also dismissed vide impugned ju dgment dated ..,hence, this leave to appeal. he further submits that the respondent have categorically admitted the factum of gift given by abdullah in favour of his uncle shafa ali but the learned courts below had overlooked the admission of respondent and had taken the wrong inferences from the contents of plaint as trustee. he also submits that the learned district he further submits that the learned gilgit baltistan chief court has illegally upheld the same. he finally submits that the said impugned judgment the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is the result of mis interpretation of law and misreading non -reading of the page evidence and facts of case, therefore, the same is not tenable and liable to be set aside. on the other hand the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent supports the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltist an chief court. he contends that the same has been passed in accordance with law and facts of the case, hence, the said impugned judgment may graciously be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. no interference is warranted into it to meet the nds of justice. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the concu rrent findings of the courts below. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned judgment the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismiss ed. consequently, the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the concurrent findings of the courts below are maintained. page the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?