page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. shakeel ahmed others petitioners. chief engineer gb others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioner s. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith deputy advocate general for respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court whereby the said civil first appeal filed by the petitioner was dismissed being meritless, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issu ed notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner filed civil suit no. for recovery of rs. ,, with compound interest in the court of learned civil ... the petitioner decree holders filed the execution page petition no. in the learned trial court for recovery of the decretal amount. the respondent judgments debtors joined the execu tion proceedings of the learned trial court and filed their objections regarding the correctness of calculation of the compound interest. the parties time and again have approached the superior courts against different calculations of the compound interest through different commissions etc. the learned trial court referred the question of calculations of the compound interest to a commission, one nominated by the petitioner decree holders another nominated by the respondent judgment debtors. the said constituted commission filed two different calculations of the compound interest. on the basis of the said calculations filed by the commission, the learned trial court passed the order in favour of the petitioner decree holders. the learned counsels for petitioner submit that the petitioner decree holders are entitled to recover the compound interest. they also submit that the respondent judgment debtors despite depositing the decretal amount in accordance with order rule cpc filed objection petition which is contrary to law and facts. per learned counsels, the learned chief court fell in error while refusing to grant any compound interest on the decretal amount from respondent judgment debtors. they submits that the impugned judgm ent dated .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court is the result of misreading and non -reading of the facts and other material on page record. they pray that the impugned judgment may graciously be set aside. on the oth er hand, the learned advocate general supports that impugned judgment the learned chief court. he contends that the petitioner decree holders are not entitled to recover the compound interest on the decretal amount from respondent judgment debtors. he also contends that the calculation of compound interest conducted by the commission members nomin ated by the petitioner decree holders is not fit to be acted upon. per learned advocate general, the petitioner decree holders were are malafidely using delaying tactics as delay in recovery of decretal amount which is beneficial to the petitioners. he submits that the learned chief court has rightly dismissed the civil first appeal of the petitioner decree holders. he prays that the impugned judgment the learned chief court may pleased be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the well reasoned impugned judgment the learned chief court as well as the .. the learned executing court. the learned advocates for he petitioner also could not point out any infirmity or illegality in the impugned judgment. in our considered view, the learned courts below have passed its judgments orders in accordance with law and facts of the ase. the learned chief court has rightly observed that the page delay in payment of the decretal amount was caused by the petitioners, therefore, no relief can be granted to them for such period. in view of the above discussions, no indulgence of this court is warranted into the impugned we, therefore, convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequent thereto, the impugned .. in civil first appeal no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the learned executing court, however, in case of any confusion in calculating the interest on decretal amount, may seek the assistance from the office of the auditor general gilgit -baltistan and or by appointing a chartered accountant firm on payment of agreed professional fee payabl by the decree holder. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.