page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan, gilgit. cpla. no. sharafat ali others petitioners. provincial government others respondents. present:- ali nazar khan advocate- on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner filed writ petition no. before the learned chi ef court contending that the respondent advertised some posts of elementary school teacher (est) bps- both male female and lab assistant bps- respectively. the said vacant posts were advertised in the daily k- dated .. inviting application from eligible candidates. he also submits that on .. the respondent issued a second advertisement to fill in some other posts of teachers. per learned counsel the respondent no. after conducting test did not display any merit list. the petitioners, however, were not appointed due to non-availability of posts whereas the appointments of respondent no. to were kep secret. he submits that the final list of candidates for the post of oriental teachers (ots) bps- issued by the deputy director education (dde) gilgit displayed wherein candidates were selected. the respondent no. placed at serial no. respo ndent no. at serial no. respondent no. at serial no. and page respondent no. at serial no. respectively. the respondent no. was placed at serial no. in the est list. he further submits that the respondent no. to were appointed to fill in the post of tgt bps- vide office order no. sec-edu-() dat ed .. who were candidates of ot not tgt or est. the petitioner being aggrieved filed writ petition no. before the learned chief court which upon hearing was dismissed vide impugned ... the government functionaries of gilgit-baltistan were directed to advertise total number of vacant posts and he transparency in the process of recruitment be maintained. per learned counsel the impugned .. in writ petition no. is not sustainable in circumstances. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioners, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality infirmity in the said impugned judgment. consequently, the leave is refused. the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge.