page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. criminal appeal no. in cr. pla no. sheikh iqbal another petitioners. the state respondent. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith the deputy advocate general on behalf of the respondent. date hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned chief court whereby the said criminal appeal filed by the state was allowed by setting aside the .. the learned judicial magistrate gilgit. consequently, the cas was remanded back to the learned court of anti-terrorism gilgit for proceedings disposal alongwith the main case. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. iss ued notice to the respondent and the case was heard today. page briefly the facts of the case are that the petitioner accused was arrested in case registered under sections ppc read with section of the anti -terrorism act, vide fir no. lodged at police station city gilgit. during the investigation a recovery of -bore pistol was affected on .. similarly, an fir no. was also registered against the petitioner under section of the arm ordinance on ... after completion of investigation the above case was sent to the learned anti -terrorism court gilgit alongwith the case registered under section arm ordinance. the learned trial court took cognizance of the case under section of the anti -terrorism act, on .. the learned trial court sent the case of arm ordinance to the court of learned judicial magistrate gilgit under the assumption that the case registered under section arm ordinance are exclusively triable by the court of judicial magistrate. the learned judicial magistrate issued notice to the accused for his appearance on ... consequently, the accused appeared before the learned judicial magistrate on ... copies of the case were provided to him under section -a cr. p.c. upon hearing the learned judicial magistrate acquitted the petitioner accused vide .. on the ground that the charge was framed on .. and the prosecution failed to produce the prosecution witnesses despite lapse of cons iderable time. page the respondent state being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed criminal appeal no. before the learned chief court which upon hearing was allowed vide impugned ... the petitioner challenged the said jud gment before this court by filing leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the case was sent to the learned judicial magistrate gilgit by the learned anti -terrorism court no. ii gilgit vide .. as the case was triable by the learned judicial magistrate as per law. he a lso submits that the respondent state did not file any appeal before the learned chief court calling in question the said order. he further submits that the said order has got fi nality as the same has not been challenged by the respondent before any competent forum. per learned counsel the respondent has failed to produce any prosecution witnesses and other corroborative evidence during the trial of the said case before the learne judicial magistrate. according to the learned counsel the said case remained pending before the learned judicial magistrate for more than years. consequently, the learned judicial magistrate gilgit has rightly acquitted the petitioner accused from the charges so leveled against him vide its ... he submits that the respondent filed criminal appeal no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was allowed vide impugned .. by setting aside the order the learned judicial magistrate gilgit. per learned counsel the page findings of the learned chief court regarding the alleged recovery of weapon of offence amounts to judgment without evidence and would adversely effect in trial of the case in the learned an ti- terrorism court. he submits that the case was not delayed on the part of the petitioner rather delay was caused by the prosecution which has not been considered by the learned chief court while passing the impugned judgment. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned judgment which according to the learn ed counsel for the petitioner is not sustainable. he prays that the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned chief court may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, the learned advocate general support the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned chief court. he contends that the fir no. is the part and parcel of the main case which is pending before the learned anti -terrorism court and it can not be separated from the main offence. he also contends that there are ample evidence with regard to the recovery of weapon of crime as the same has been recovered from the accused on his pointation and such recovery is admissible under the qanoon -e- shahadat per learned advocate general the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded and no interference is warranted into it. page we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned chief court and other materials on record. in our considered view, the fir no. is part of the main case which is admittedly pending adjudication in the learned trial court i.e. anti -terrorism court gilgit. the transfer of the said case under arm ordinance to the learned judicial magistrate is not sustainable as it was a co rroborative piece of evidence in the main case which has rightly been reversed by the learned chief court vide impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned chief court has inherent powers under section -a cr. p.c. to pa ss any order(s) as may be necessary to give effect to any order under this code or to prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to score the ends of justice. the learned chief court has rightly observed that the learned judicial magistrate gil git has not followed the procedure provided from section cr. p.c to section -c of the cr. p.c for procuring attendance of the witnesses and transfer of case under section arm ordinance by the learned anti -terrorism court gilgit to the court of lear ned judicial magistrate was not only illegal but was also unwarranted. the learned counsel for the petitioner otherwise could not point out any infirmity in the impugned judgment. page in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an app eal and the same is dismissed. the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the learned trial court i.e. anti terrorism court gilgit is, however, directed to examine material witnesses expeditiously within a period of three () months in accordance with law. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.