page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. sher madad khan others petitioners. governor gilgit -baltistan others respondents. civil appeal no. in cpla no. governor gilgit -baltistan others petitioners. sher madad khan others respondents. present: 2017in cpla no. and for respondent in civil appeal no.. in cpla no. malik shafqat wali senior advocate on behalf of the respondent in civil appeal no. 2017in cpla no. and for petitioner civil appeal no.. in cpla no. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition filed by the petitioner was partially allowed prospectively, however, the perks privileges have not been granted retrospectively. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment filed this leave to page appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that the petitioner are performing their duties as advocate general, additional advocate general, deputy advocate general and assistant advocate general gilgit -baltistan respectively. the petitioner filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court contending therein that they were are entitled for the perks privileges and other monetary benefits at par with their counterp arts of the four () provinces of pakistan as we ll as azad jamu kashmir (ajk). the petitioner earlier filed departmental appeal to the competent authorities but the respondent granted only rs. per month to the petitioner no. rs. per month to the petitioner no. and rs. to the petitioner no. as non -practicing allow ance vide ... whereafter the petitioner were constrained to file the said writ petition in the learned chief court claiming for equal treatment under article of the constitution of islamic republic of pakistan, an article of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, the said writ petition was partially allowed with prospective effect, however, the said perks privileges have not been granted retrospectively. the learned cou nsel for the petitioner submits that after promulgation of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, the government of pakistan has been page pleased to upgrade and equate all the government organizations in gilgit -baltistan at par with their counter parts in all the four () provinces of pakistan including azad jamu kashmir (ajk). whereas the petitioner have been discriminated. per learned counsel, the posts of the petitioner no. to are purely constitutional posts which can not be placed in any basic pay scale the posts of petitioner no. however, can be placed in bps- at par with the rest of provinces of the country. he further submits that the learned advocate general has the status of provincial minister in all the provinces of pakistan. he is entitled for all the perks privileges which have been granted by the rest of the provinces particularly at par with the province of punjab. similarly, the petitioner no. are also entitled for all the perks privileges at par with the province of punjab. he submits that there is no financial constraints as mentioned in the impugned judgment. the government of gilgit -baltistan has all the resources to pay the said monetary benefits to the petitioners. although the rit petition filed by the petitioner was partially allowed by the learned chief court yet the back benefits were declined to them which is against the spirit of law and the rule of consistency. on the other hand, malik shafqat wali senior advocate, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan contends that the petitioner have no cause of action and locus standi to file the writ petition in the learned chief court against its own government. at the time of their page appointments for the respective posts, the petitioner have voluntarily accepted the terms conditions of their services. the petitioner were are estopped by law from filing the said writ petition. per learned counsel, the petitioner no. to are the civil servants and they are getting their pay allowances as per their basic pay scales. the government of gilgit -baltistan is dependent on the federal government in financial matter s. the gilgit -baltistan government has no separate budget to meet with the expenditure on account of extraordinary benefits as granted to the petitioner by the learned chief court, hence, not tenable in law. he prays that the impugned judgment the learned chief court be set aside in circumstances. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned .. the learned chief court. the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan could not point out any infirmity or illegality except the financial constrain ts in the impugned judgment. in our considered view, the petitioner were not treated equally amongst equals i.e. at par with their counterparts in other four pr ovinces. in view of the above discussions, we convert oth the petitions into appeals, consequently, he civil appeal no. in (cpla no. filed by the petitioner is disposed off with modifications whereas the civil appeal no. (in cpla. page ), filed by the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan is dismissed with no order as to cost. the impugned .. the learned chief court is maintained with the following modifi cation s:- (a). the advocate general. i. the advocate general office, being detached department of law prosecution department gilgit -baltistan, shall function independently and assist the courts of law accordingly. all the additional advocate (s) general, deputy advocate (s) general and assistant advocate (s) general appear ing in the courts of law and or officers and staff shall function under the administrative control of the learned advocate general. ii. the gilgit -baltistan government is directed to establish a separate office of learned advocate general and create a separate budget to run the affairs of the office of advocate general independently in line with their counterparts serving in all four provinces of pakistan. iii. the learned advocate general is entitled for the perks, privileges and status at par with advocate general of punjab. iv. he is entitled to fly hoist pakist an flag on his official private vehicle (s) during his tenure as an advocate general gilgit baltistan. v. he has the status of a provincial minister, gilgit -baltista n. vi. he sha ll hold his office during the pleasure of the governor, gilgit -baltistan. vii. he will not engage himself in private practice so long he holds the office of advocate general. viii. it shall be the duty of advocate general to give advice to the provincial government upon such legal matters, and to perform such other duties of a legal character, as may be referred or assigned to him by the provincial government. page ix. he may by writing, under his hand, addressed to the governor, resign his offic e. (b). additional advocate general deputy advocate general assistant advocate general. i. the additional advocate general and assistant advocate general gilgit -baltistan shall also be entitled for the perks privileges at par with their counterparts as granted by the provincial government of punjab. whereas the deputy advocate general would be entitled for the perks privileges at par with the khyber pukhtunkhaw (kpk) government. ii. they will serve under the administrative control of learned advocate general and perform their functions appear in the courts of law as instructed directed by the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan. iii. they shall hold their office during the pleasure of the governor, gilgit -baltistan. iv. they will not engage themselves in private practice so long they hold the office of their respective posts. v. they may by writing, under their hand s, addressed to the governor, resign their office s. (c) in case of the incumbents being government servants in bps -, in the law prosecution department, gilgit -baltistan, serving as additional advocate general, deputy advocate general and or assistant advocate general and appearing in courts of law, they shall be entitled for grant of non-pract icing allowance(s in line with their counterparts serving in prosecution department, government of sindh and or they may opt to revert back in the prosecution service in their own pay scales. the provincial government, to replace such officer(s) may appoint new such law officers, if so advised. page both the appeals are disposed of in above terms. the copies of this order be sent to the learned chief secretary, gilgit -baltistan, the secretary law prosecution department, gilgit -baltistan and the secretary finance government of gilgit -baltistan for information and compliance. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?