page in the supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan at gilgit cr. p.l.a. no. ud- din, judge. judge. sher zaman faqir shah gojal hunza at present district jail gilgit. petitioner appellant the state through police station gilgit. respondent prosecution criminal leave to appeal under article of gilgi t- baltistan (empowerment sel governance) order against th judgmen conviction dated the learned chief court gilgit baltistan in criminal appeal no. whereby judgment conviction dated -- session has been upheld dismissing th appeal of petitioner appellant. present: advocate general for the respondent. advocate for the petitioner. date of hearing: --. judgment raja jalal -ud-din, this criminal appeal has been preferred against the judgment of chief court gilgit -baltistan dated who has upheld the judgment of sessions -- where in the appellant convict has been sentenced to years imprisonment with the fine of rupees lac and in default to undergo years rigorous imprisonment. the convict appellant has also been sentenced to imprisonment months under section .a.o. the background of the case madeout by the investig ating officer is that, on the day of occurrence one accused ibrahim khan who was brought to the additional district sessions court for the page extention of his remand, who was charged in a criminal case u ppc, was attempted murder by the present appell ant convict namely sher zaman with bore pistol, a single fire shot opened which was deflected by the police personel. thereby the fire shot did not find its mark. the convict was overpowered and the weapon of offence was recovered from him. the addi tional sessions court gilgit who found the convict guilty of charge against him and sentenced as aforesaid. the chief court gilgit also concurred with the findings of the sessions --. both the counsel for the petitioner as well as the advocate general were heard at length. the counsel for the appellant convict mainly based his arguments on the discrepencies of the case such as the absence of independent witnesses and the non -sending of the alleged weapon to the arms expert for examination. the whole case rested upon the testamony of police officials who could not be called as independent persons to base a conviction upon. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on the other hand strongly contested the argumen ts with the contention that the criminal case was a result of premeditation by appellant convict. the occurrence taking place in brought day light infront of the sessions court in the presence of natural witnesses. the police personels are good witnesses ho were present at the spot and given a natural and factual account of the occurrence. we have given through thought to the version of both the parties and have also gone through the record of the case. the appellant convict was a young man of about years at the time of occurrence and he is the brother of wife of ibrahim khan who was behind the bars u for the murder of his wife and two children the sister and nephews of the convict). the said ibrahim khan was later on convicted u to life imprisonment by the trial court. the appellant convict sher zaman was badly moved by the brutal act of ibrahim khan, and on the day of occurrence attempted to do away with the same but miserably failed to do so and ther eby found guilty as aforesaid. we feel that the investigation of the case as well as the conviction of the appellant does not suffer from any material defects and the findings of both the chief court and sessions we have calcula ted the period undergone by the appellant convict amounts to about years and months. whereas page the benefit of (b) has also been extended infavour of th appellant convict by the two court below. we find that as the appellant convict has already spent a period of years months behind the bars is enough punishment for the act done. his detention behind bars is considered as sentence undergone. th fine of rupees lac is also set aside. the sentence of months u a.o. is also considered to have been undergone. we therefore order the release of the appellant convict and set aside the order of the sessions -- and the order of the chief court gilgit -baltistan dated -- in the f.i.r. no. u ppc to be released from the judicial lockup if not required in any other case. announced: --.