page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. mr..rana muhammad, shamim,chief smc no. (complaint submit ted by general manager sarena hotle giligt). present: mr.mumtaz ahamed, registrar gilgit baltistan chief court respondent is present. the advocate general gilgit baltistan. dated of hearing: -... order. this court passed certain orders on .. wherein the administrative and judicial powers conferred to gilgit -baltistan chief court and as district and session on .. the deputy registrar, gilgit baltistan chief court issued office order no.cc with the approval of the hou ble chief –baltistan chief court that in pursuance of the .. this court in smc. no. that additional registrar, gilgit baltistan chief court will function as registrar chief court with immediate effect till further orders. resultantly, the orders direction of this court were implemented in its letters and spirits. yesterday i.e. .. gilgit -baltistan chief court filed and explanation regarding the mis page communication of the directives of the ho ble chief the directives were misunderstood and wrongly conveyed to him which caused inconvenience and constrained this court to take ognizance. he regrets for an inadvertent act in carrying out execution of the orders so wrongly passed on to him due to misunderstandings in good faith. consequently, the matter was admittedly mishandled in good faith due to misunderstanding and mi scommunications. the above explanation filed on .. by baltistan and the complainant. the petitioner is sat isfied with such explanation and he does not want to press his petition in the circumstances. in view of the above discussions, facts and circumstances, it is held that the learned former registrar has acted innocently in good faith. the petition is disposed off as not pressed. the interim orders directives passed on .. by this court are hereby recalled. the learned chief court may, however, call an explanation, if so required, from the responsible officers in creating misunderstandings and hen mis -communicating such directives to the learned former registrar. page the copy of this order be sent to the learned additional registrar gilgit -baltistan chief court and the learned advocate general gilgit baltista n. the petition is disposed as ot pressed. chief judge.