page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. smc no. shoulder out of turn promotion in gb police. present: the advocate general for the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan. -baltistan. date of hearing: ... date of detailed judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... a news was published in daily wad di newspaper dated .., regarding undue and out turn promotion in police department gilgit baltistan. on such news clippings the learned registrar of this court reported the matter to the baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, before takin suo moto notice, office of this court was directed to seek report from the inspector general of police gilgit -baltistan. consequently, the inspector general office vide letter no. igp -()- e- dated .. informed to the office of this court that the police departmen gilgit -baltistan has already taken necessary steps against the undue and out of turn promotion made without constituting department selection committee (dpc) etc. in this regard, the office of this court, has sought data of all undue out of turn promotion of all districts and union page branches of police department gilgit -baltistan. the office of the inspector general of police gilgit -baltistan through letter no. igp () ex dated .. file a comprehensiv report mentioning therein three categories of promotions i.e. (). shoulder promotions (). undue out of turn promotion (). promotion granted without fulfilling of mandatory trainings as per existing police service rules. the detail of the said report is as under: a. the details of the officers officials in districts, units branch of gilgit -baltistan police who have been given shoulder promotion is attached herewith (from annex -a to s) showing their actual rank and shoulder rank. b. the details of officers officials of gilgit -baltistan police who have been promoted out of turn, is attached as annex -t. c. the details of officers officials of gilgit -baltistan police who have been promoted without following codal formalities, existing rules and without qu alifying mandatory police courses is attached annex u. the secretary home and prison department gilgit baltistan has also submitted a letter no. igp -() dated .. written by the assistant inspector general police gilgit -baltistan egarding shoulder out of turn promotion which is reproduced as under: quote office of the inspector general of police gilgit baltistan page to, the secretary, home prisons gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. no. igp () dated 20th december, subject: smc no. shoulder out of turn promotion in gilgit -baltistan police please refer to home prisons department gb letter no. so (p) () (inquiry), dated 22nd december, alongwith the attested copy of the order of the dated .., in suo moto case no. in compliance with the orders of on december the report has been complied after scrutiny of the available record egarding police officers officials of gilgit -baltistan police department promoted out of turn, without qualifying mandatory police courses, without completing codal formalities, without lawful authority and those who have been granted shoulder promotion, a under; out of turn promotions: .the details of officers officers earned out of turn promotions in gilgit baltistan police is enclosed herewith as annexure -a. presently, neither any law nor any rule exist, which authorize any authority to gra nt out of turn promotions on the acts of gallantry or extra ordinary performances, how commendable and appreciated by the society. promotions without mandatory police courses: the professional police courses and enlistment of officers to various promotion lists are mandatory for promotion from one rank to another rank, have been prescribed in police rules, and in the recruitment promotion rules of gilgit -baltistan police, notified vide s.r.o () dated 9th january, to determine th eligibility of an officer for promotion to next rank. the types of mandatory police course required for promotion to various ranks are as under, however the details of promotion lists have been discussed at para -. a. lower school course: the rule list-c. promotion to head constable; (police rules, stipulates that: in each district a list shall be maintained in card index form () of all constables who have passed lower school course at pillar and are considered eligible for promotion to head constable page the lower school course is mandatory course for a constable in the seniority list-b, for his admission to list -c. the list -c, which is maintained in the district for constables, who have qual ified lower school course and are eligible for promotion to the rank of head constables (rule .). b. intermediate school course: rule list -d. promotion to assistant sub -inspector; (police rules, stipulates that: a list shall be maintained in each district in card index form .() of those head constables who have passed the lower school course and the inter mediate school course at the police training school and are approved by the deputy inspector -general as eligible for officiating or substantive promotion to the rank of assistant sub -inspector. no head constable shall be admitted to this list who is not th oroughly efficient in all branches of the duties of a constable and head constable and of established integrity c. upper school course the upper school course is a pre -requisite police course for promotion from sub-inspector (bs -) to inspector (bs -), laid down in part -ii, conditions for promotion; in the approved recruitment promotion rules of gilgit -baltistan police, notified vide s. r. () dated 9th january, as follows; a. years of service in the field of investig ation (bs -). b. one year training from police training institute academy. the standing order no. of issued by inspector general of police gilgit baltistan after the approval of government vide dy.no. na -ii, also stipulates the following elig ibility criteria for promotion to the rank of inspector (); a. officer not qualifying intermediate and upper school course shall not be eligible for promotion to the rank of inspector (bs -). b. no officer shall be confirmed in the rank of sip, unless he has passed upper school course. d. advance class course the advance class course is a pre -requisite police course for promotion from inspector (bs -) to deputy superintendent of police (bs -), laid down in part-ii, conditions for promotion; in the ap proved recruitment promotion rules of gilgit -baltistan police, notified vide s. r. () dated 9th january, as follows; c. years of service in as inspector (bs -). d. one year training from police training institute academy. the advance class course is mandatory for promotion from inspector (bs -) to the rank of dsp (bs -) in punjab police and other police organizations. it is pertinent to mention that no any authority is competent to exempt any officer from the afore -mentioned mandatory police courses enshrined in police page rules, and in recruitment promotion rules of gilgit -baltistan police, except the authority which has framed these rules. the details of officers officials promoted without mandatory courses are enclosed herewith as annexure -b. all such officers who have not undergone the pre-requisite police courses mentioned against each and promoted to higher ranks, may be given time frame of months to complete all the courses mandatory of each rank. the officers at s. no. to have already been promoted to the rank of dsp in their turn, but they were not nominated to undergo advance class course prior to their promotion. however, these officers have now been nominated to undergo advance class course at police training college gilgit. ex-cadre promotions: the police act, police rules envisages the police force one indivisible body posses sing various establishments performing assigned functions such as district police, reserve police, crime branch, special branch, police training college and so on. each of these establishments are in fact integral parts of the police force, and under no ru les of construction they can be construed as a separate or independent cadre. the appointments and enrollments of the police personnel are regulated by rule of the police rules, of chapter xii, which deals with three different sets of recruitmen processes described thereunder: a. recruitment in prosecution (legal branch), rule .()(c ). b. recruitment of technical district, rule .(b) c. recruitment of upper subordinates in police, rule .. there is a difference in the training courses of the personnel appointed in the aforementioned units as prescribed in the police rules. a. training of personnel: i. constable, rule ii. upper subordinates, rule b. training of officers in prosecution (legal branch ), rule .. c. training of officers in technical district, rule .(b)(). after recruitment no inspector (legal) shall be allowed to change of cadre from inspector (legal) to the executive of any other branch in the police department the supreme court of pakistan in its --, on civil petitions no. to to and to of has held that, on the basis of the aforementioned criteria of recruitment and training in terms of the rules referred to hereinabove, it can be easily concluded police force has three independent units i.e. executive, technical and prosecution (legal),. on scanning the rules it can be further concluded that police personnel appointed in terms of the afore said recruitment process cannot horizontally travel to any other unit referred to hereinabove either by way of transfer or otherwise. we may, however, observe that rule of police rules provides recruitment page process and training program from const able to inspector in the police establishment (executive unit) is common therefore, police personnel once appointed in any of the abovementioned three independent units i.e. executive, technical and prosecution (legal) cannot legally be transferred, me rged or otherwise to any other unit. the leave to appeal titled dsp abdul rauf etc. provincial government against the judgment of -baltistan regar ding merging of seniority of ds ps legal with ds ps of executive branch of ilgit-baltistan police is sub-judice in the in pursuance of above quoted police rule and the judgment of supreme court of pakistan, the officer appointed in prosecution (legal) technical branch, cannot be merged or transf erred to executive police; hence, to give equal opportunity in career progression to the officers in each unit, directions if given for creation of senior cadre posts in their respective units shall be complied with immediately. however, no other cases of ex-cadre promotions have been found in gilgit baltistan police. promotions without completing codal formalities: in pursuance of the spirit of police rules, and the judgment no. c.p. -, of supreme court of pakistan, there are six () com mon seniority promotion lists maintained in the police department as per seniority and qualification (trainings and promotional courses) of the personnel in various ranks. the enlistment to these promotion lists is mandatory prior to their promotion to ne xt rank i.e.: i. promotion list -a:- list-a, maintained in the district for constables having years successful completion of probationary period found fit for promotion to the list -b. (rule .). ii. promotion list -b:- list-b, maintained in the district for constables, who are present in list -a and found eligible to be sent to lower school course, which is promotional training for promotion to the rank of head constable, (rule .). iii. promotion list -c:- list-c, maintained in the district for constables, who have qualified lower school course and are eligible for promotion to the rank of head constable, (rule .). iv. promotion list -d:- list-d, prepared in the district and forwarded to the range digp for a pproval and maintenance of seniority list. this list includes head constables eligible for promotion to the rank of asi after successful completion of intermediate school course. (rule .) v. promotion list -e:- list-e, maintained by the range di gs, contain ing confirmed asis, who are eligible for promotion to the rank of sub -inspectors. rule .). vi. promotion list -f:- list-f, prepared by cpo on the recommendations of range di gs and maintained by central police office (cpo) on the centralized basis, contain ing confirmed sub -inspectors, who have qualified upper school course and eligible for promotion to the rank of inspectors. (rule .). page the details of officers officials promoted without completing codal formalities enclosed herewith as annexure -c. these officers have been promoted without being admitted to above mentioned promotion lists and without dpc proceedings. lawful authority for promotion from on rank to another: the details of officers promoted without lawful authority have been enclosed herewith as annexure -d. it is pertinent to elucidate here that under the police rules, the seniority of the constable and head constable is maintained in the district, whereas seniority of asi and sip is maintained by range dig. the seniorit of inspector in police is maintained by central police office. the supreme court of pakistan pursuance of above rules, in its judgment no. c.p. has held that; all the establishments, other than the executive police establishment, i.e. district superintendent of police and range dig, are barred from making direct or indirect recruitment or promotion. being the custodian of the service record etc. of the police personnel, the district superintendent of police range dig, shall make selection for olice training and practical training, and no other establishment shall be authorized to make such selection. by way of clarification it may be observed that the matters related to seniority, promotion or trainings in respect of police inspector, the compe tent authority is inspector general of police, as provided in the police rules in pursuance of the above referred judgment of supreme court of pakistan and the spirit of police rules and the departmental promotion committees notified by he government, the following are the authorities competent for appointment promotion in police department gilgit -baltistan: s. rank authority competent for appointment promotion from on rank to another authority competent for promotion foot constable (fc, bs -) district superintendent of police fc to hc district superintendent of police head constable (hc, bs -) direct appointment is not permissible hc to asi range dig assistant sub inspector (asi, bs -) rang dig asi to sip range dig sub-inspector (sip, bs -) range dig sip to ip inspector general of police inspector police (ip, bs -) inspector general of police ip to dsp chief secretary deputy superintendent of police (bs -) chief secretary dsp to sp chief secretary page the details of police officers officials who have been given shoulder promotion is enclosed herewith as annexure -e. it is also pertinent to apprise, that sp (bs -), transferred and posted to officiate the office of range dig, have been allowed to wear the rank of ssp (bs -), on his own pay and scale. similarly, dssp (bs -), transferr ed and posted to officiate the office of district superintendent of police, due to shortage of officers at the rank of sp(bs -); have been allowed to wear the rank of sp, on their own pay and scale, while keeping their seniority of the rank in considerat ion. likewise, the inspectors (bs ), transferred and posted to officiate the office of sub -divisional police officer, due to shortage of officers at the rank of dsp (bs -), have been allowed to wear the rank of dsp, on their own pay and scale, while kee ping the seniority of the rank in consideration. however, on their transfer from the post of dig, district superintendent of police sdpo, they have to put on their actual ranks. the report is submitted as desired please. -sd- aig establishment for igp gb. unquote the assistant inspector general of police vides letter no. igp-() ex dated 23ed october, submitted the following report: quote office of the inspector general of police gilgit -baltsitan to the assistant registrar (j), supreme appellate court, gb gilgit no. igp -() ex -i dated 23rd october, subject: news clippings kindly refer to the assistant registrar (j) -baltistan letter no. sac -hrw. dated 17th october, on the subject noted above. in this regard, the requisite comprehensive report regarding granting of shoulder promotion, ut of turn promotion and promotion without fulfilling codal formalities of mandatory training courses as per existing rules to various officers officials is attached herewith for kind perusal of -baltistan. the detail of which is summarized in three categories is as under: a. the details of officers officials in districts, units branch of gilgit baltistan police who have been given shoulder promotion is attached herewith (from annex -a to s) showing their actual rank and shoulder rank. b. the details of officers officials of gilgit -baltistan police who have been promoted out of turn, is attached as annex -t. c. the details of officers officials of gilgit -baltistan police who have been promoted without following codal formalities, existing rules and without qualifying mandatory police courses, is attached as annex -u. it is pertinent to apprise that dssp are allowed to wear the rank of sp, when transferred and posted to officiate the office of superintendent of police, owing to deficiency of officers of the rank of sp (bs -). besides, the inspectors police when posted to officiate the office of sub -divisional police officer (sdpo) are also allowed to wear the rank of dsp. however, on their transfer from the pos of superintendent of police sdpo, they have to put on the rank of dsp ip respectively. report is submitted as desired please. -sd- aig establishment breakup of shoulder promotions granted to officers officials of gb police s. o. actu al ran shoul der rank lt a ge il gi hi ze u nz a ag ar di a er as to re bl a ge sk ar du gh an ch kha rma ng sh ig ar a i al ds sp ip dsp sip ip asi sip hc sip hc asi hc lady asi hc asi driv er hc dri ver asi fc asi fc hc page fc hc driv er fc uph fc lady uph fc uph driv er fc sgc fc sgc driv er fc dri ver hc driv er grand total annexure -a shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in cpo s. no. name of official actual rank shoulder rank mudassir ayoub sip ip ashiq hussain asi sip murad khan hc sip arif hussan hc driver asi aziz ahmad hc asi kaka jan hc asi shoukat hc asi aziz ali hc asi bibi fatma hc asi namiat wali fc up hc summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder sip ip asi sip hc sip hc asi hc driver asi driver page fc uphc total: annexure -r shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in kksf gb s. no. name of official actual rank shoulder rank hassan ali dsp sp muhammad wali fc up hc rehamat ghani fc up hc arsh khan fc up hc shakir hussain fc up hc muhammad alam fc up hc matloob hussain fc up hc matloob hussain fc up hc sajid hussain fc up hc syed musa ali fc sgc muhammad sikandar fc sgc summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder dsp sp fc uphc fc sgc total: annexure -s shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in ptc gb s. no. name of official actual rank shoulder rank ghulam qadir asi sip maqsood ali asi sip shahzada khan asi sip muhammad ibrahim asi sip haji muhammad muslim hc asi muhammad isamil hc asi muhammad karim hc asi jan muhammad hc asi zia –ud-din hc asi page asharaf hussain hc asi jamil hc asi muhammad riaz hc asi pakhtoon hc asi johar ali hc asi bahar shah hc asi nadir hussain hc asi farmanullah hc asi muhammad usman hc asi ikramullah hc asi iftikhar hussain hc asi maqbool –ur –rehman hc asi shamsher khan hc asi sahib jan hc asi nasir hussain fc up hc imtiaz ahmed fc up hc muhammad akbar fc up hc zaidullah khan fc up hc tanveer ahmed fc up hc muhammad janan fc up hc muhammad riaz fc up hc tufail ahmed fc up hc kaleem azad fc up hc altaf hussain fc up hc ajab khan fc up hc rehmat murad fc up hc muhammad qasim fc up hc wajid ali fc up hc syed imran hussain fc up hc issa khan fc up hc syed manzoor hussain fc up hc abdullah kahn fc up hc sadar –ud-din fc up hc shabbir hussain fc up hc nazakat hussain fc up hc hassan shah fc up hc hussain ali fc up hc muhammad hussain fc up hc muhammad faqir fc up hc ghulam nabi fc up hc roza aman fc up hc walyat ali no fc up hc fazal karim fc up hc piyar ali fc up hc page walyat ali no fc up hc alif khan fc up hc rehamt ullah fc up hc ulfat rahim fc up hc saleem abbas fc up hc sabir ali kahn fc up hc ahmed ali fc up hc mir din fc up hc abdul rashid fc up hc shakeel fc up hc shahid ali fc up hc sher ali aman fc sgc nizam –ud-din fc sgc hussain ali fc sgc altaf hussain fc sgc latif hussain fc sgc samiullah fc sgc arif hussain fc sgc amir khan fc sgc shukooruallah baig fc sgc ali muhammad fc sgc bilal hussain fc sgc shahadat khan fc sgc ahmed khan fc sgc irfan karim fc sgc yahya khan fc sgc summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder asi sip hc asi fc uphc fc sgc total: annexure officers officials of gb police who have been promoted out of turn s. no. name of officers officials place of posting out of turn promotion page from to tehzeeb -ul-hassan cpo sip ip muhammad yasin hunza sip ip muhammad hussain gilgit asi sip ghulam muhiddin gilgit asi sip noor alam diamer hc asi sher azam kksf fc hc wazir azam kksf fc hc maqsood ali ptc fc asi noor khan diamer fc hc shoukat wali kksf fc hc noor -ul-amin arp fc hc ghulam dastagir ghizer fc hc noor muhammad ghanche fc hc ghulam abbas shigar fc hc baseer abbas cid fc hc muhammad khushdad gilgit fc hc shahid hussain gilgit fc hc gul dahoor ghizer lfc lhc shahina akhtar skardu lfc lhc annexure -b shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in dig gilgit range s. no. name of official actual rank shoulder rank shakeel fc up hc lateefullah fc up hc basharatullah fc up hc summary page s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder fc uphc total: annexure -c shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in district gilgit name of official actual rank shoulder rank muhammad ayaz dsp sp syed murtaza hussain sip ip syed ijial hussain sip ip raziullah sip ip muhammad amin asi sip sher jahan asi sip ghualm fareed asi sip abdul latif hc asi muhammad mustafa hc sip ahmed ali hc asi malik shah hc asi muhammad zakria hc asi ejaz ali hc asi akber hussain hc asi akhtar hussain hc asi imran khan fc hc syed azeem fc hc tehzeeb hussain driver hc driver syed muhammad ali shah fc up hc zulfiqar ali fc hc mehfooz ullah fc up hc rassol mir fc up hc naseer ahmed fc up hc nazeem shah fc up hc haider ali fc up hc s.mumtaz hussain fc up hc muhammad aslam fc up hc syeed shah jahan fc up hc naveed ahmed fc up hc walayat ali fc up hc yar muhammad fc up hc sartaj fc up hc shafaullah fc up hc hussain shah fc up hc nadeem shah fc up hc imam dad fc up hc page irfanullah fc up hc sartaj ahmed fc up hc hanain raza fc up hc muzfar hussain fc up hc saeed alam fc up hc mansoor khan fc up hc shoukat ali fc up hc sultan mehmood fc up hc yasir arafat fc up hc malik shah fc up hc muzfar hussain fc up hc umer yar fc up hc shujaullah fc up hc sadaqat ahmed fc up hc jafar hussain fc up hc mir subhan fc up hc dostdar ali fc up hc shahid hussain fc up hc attaullah fc up hc driver qasim shah fc up hc driver muhammad asharaf fc up hc driver sherullah fc up hc driver abdul wali shah fc up hc driver jahngir khan fc up hc dirver bahadur wali fc up hc driver shamsur rehamn fc up hc driver shahid hussain fc up hc driver sher bahadue fc up hc driver muhammad hanif fc up hc naseem ullah fc up hc imtiaz hussain fc up hc muhammad mayum fc up hc owais ur rehamn fc up hc nageen khan fc up hc rafaqai hussain fc up hc muhammd ismail fc up hc shahid hussain fc up hc alamgir hc asi arif hussain fc up hc driver raqib hussain fc up hc momin khan fc up hc rehamt fc up hc yaqoob ali fc up hc shabab hussain fc up hc abbas ali up hc fc up hc tahir hussain fc up hc page wajid ali fc up hc mir afzal fc up hc shams ur rehamn fc up hc haibat hussain fc up hc zulfiqar ahmed fc up hc solat ali fc up hc hameed ur rehamn fc up hc nasrat ali up hc fc up hc fazal ur rehaman fc up hc zulfiqar ali fc up hc hussain shah fc up hc naseer ahmed fc up hc akbar hussain fc up hc muhammad rafiuqe fc up hc muhammad hanif fc up hc muzfar kah fc up hc zamrood khan fc up hc nazir abbas fc up hc shoukat abbas fc up hc aqeel khan fc up hc muhammad qudoos fc up hc azad khan fc up hc ejaz hussain fc up hc ahmed saeed fc up hc altaf hussain fc up hc raytullah fc up hc abdur rehaman fc up hc musrat zaman fc up hc amir shah fc up hc imtaz ali fc up hc abdur rehaman fc up hc fida hussain fc up hc saeed ahmed shan fc up hc muhammd qudoos fc up hc sher abbas fc up hc tanzeem ur rehamn fc up hc manzoor hussain fc up hc syed ali abbas fc up hc akhtar hussain fc up hc sultan amin fc up hc sajjad ur rehman fc up hc khursheed ahmed fc up hc zaheer abbas fc up hc shan muhammad fc up hc muhammad nawaz fc up hc mir wali fc up hc page ibrar hussain fc up hc javeed iqbal fc up hc zaheer alam fc up hc ali amber fc up hc muneer husain fc up hc burhan ud din fc up hc summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder dsp sp sip ip asi sip hc sip hc asi fc hc fc uphc fc driver hc driver fc uphc driver total: annexure -d shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in ghizer name of official actual rank shoulder rank muhammad ameer dsp sp islam khan asi sip muhammad sahar hc asi jamal hussain hc asi bulbul jahan hc asi ejaz hussain fc hc riaz fc hc saleem ahmad fc hc shah afzal fc hc driver summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder dsp sp asi sip hc asi fc hc fc hc driver total: page annexure -e shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in district nagar name of official actual rank shoulder rank akbar hussain fc up hc shakoor ali fc up hc muhammad hussain fc up hc riaz hussain fc up hc shahid hussain fc up hc nasir abbas fc up hc shabbier hussain fc up hc dildar shah fc up hc syed aqil hussain fc up hc sher alam fc up hc yawar abbas fc up hc syed noor uddin fc up hc hussain ali fc up hc hamid hussain fc up hc muhammad abbas fc up hc shahid hussain fc up hc akbar hussain fc up hc rafsanjani fc sgc shoukat ali fc sgc hamid hussain fc sgc muhammad sharif fc sgc summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder fc uphc fc sgc total: annexure -f shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in district hunza s. no. name of official actual rank shoulder rank eid-ul-karim fc up hc nasir uddin fc up hc page saddar uddin fc up hc noor din fc up hc muhammad din fc up hc sabir hussain fc up hc muhammad sarfaraz fc up hc summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder fc uphc total: annexure -g shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in district diamer s. no. name of official actual rank shoulder rank abdul samad ip dsp muhammad wakil sip ip shah sarwar sip ip mir ghani sip ip khushal khan sip ip abdul ghafar asi sip sher muhammad asi sip mujeeb ur –rehaman asi sip zafar iqbal hc asi abdul qahar hc asi abdul ghafar fc asi bashir ahmed fc up hc babar khan fc up hc sher baz fc asi muhammad safa fc up hc muhammad bhadur fc up hc taj alam fc up hc asbar khan fc up hc muhammad abdullah fc up hc sher ahmed fc up hc abbas khan fc up hc mehfooz ullah fc up hc muhammad hussain fc up hc aman ullah fc up hc saeed alam fc up hc lal ahmed fc up hc page farooq azam fc up hc muhammad riaz fc up hc ejaz ahmed fc up hc sher baboor fc up hc allmullah fc up hc daulat khan fc up hc hidayat ullah fc up hc shabir ahmed fc up hc syed nawaz sharif fc up hc rehamt hussain fc up hc shan zeb fc up hc azmat shah asi sip javed iqbal asi sip abdul hussain asi sip muhammd marjan asi sip muhammd waqas hc asi sher muhammad hc asi abdul rehaman fc sgc ali jan fc up hc abdul manaf fc up hc abdul qavi fc up hc wesi ullah fc up hc rehamt nabi fc up hc saqib mir fc up hc abdul qadeem fc up hc abdul haleem fc up hc abdul hakeem fc up hc shafqat ullah fc up hc muhammad asif fc up hc ehsan ullah fc up hc muhammad zubir fc up hc ehsan ullah fc up hc insar ahmed fc up hc shafiullah fc up hc muhammad arif fc up hc rafi ud din fc up hc taj muhammad fc up hc raza ullah fc up hc manzor ullah fc up hc abdul rehaman fc up hc ghulam hussain fc up hc jeel wali fc sgc muhammad sakeel fc up hc abdul sattar fc up hc page nasirullah fc sgc faqir wali fc sgc abdul qayoom fc sgc manwar shah fc sgc mujawar khan fc sgc ghulam rehmat fc sgc qadam khan fc sgc sher baz fc sgc raj mir fc sgc hidayat ullah fc sgc juma mir fc sgc muhammad ghayas fc sgc jahangir ahmed fc sgc abdul ghani fc sgc shakir ullah fc sgc hudood ullah fc sgc sher baz fc sgc razwanullah fc sgc raja khan fc sgc abdul mateen fc up hc muhammad amin fc sgc muhammad alam fc sgc muhammad mushtaq fc sgc riaz ahmed fc up hc muhammad ghani fc up hc anisur rehman fc up hc shams ullah fc sgc sarmast khan fc up hc raj alam fc sgc ahsanullah fc sgc abdul qadir fc sgc rehmat wali fc sgc umar khan fc sgc iqbal ahmed fc up hc muhammad jan fc sgc sher zada fc sgc abdul rahim fc sgc sher afzal fc sgc abdul majeed fc sgc abdul bari fc up hc saeedur rehman fc up hc azizur rehman fc up hc altaf hussain fc up hc imran khan fc up hc page summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder ip dsp sip ip asi sip hc asi fc asi fc uphc fc sgc total: annexure -h shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in district astore s. no. name of official actual rank shoulder rank hawas khan fc up hc sher ahmed fc up hc walayat khan fc up hc abdul hakim fc up hc jan muhammad fc up hc muhammad raza fc up hc adam khan fc up hc ghushpoor ahmed fc up hc muhammad sabir fc up hc farid –ul- haq fc up hc samiullah fc up hc ishfaq ahmed fc up hc abdul hadi fc up hc juma khan fc up hc ehsan wali fc up hc muhammad ayoub fc up hc muhammad iqbal fc up hc muhammad ibrahim fc up hc maqsood alam fc up hc amanullah fc up hc shafiq ahmed fc up hc nisar ahmed fc up hc muhammad shafi fc up hc page haimullah fc up hc bahadur khan fc up hc zulfiqar ali fc up hc summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder fc uphc total: annexure -. no. name of official actual rank shoulder rank ahmed shabbir dsp sp syed jaffar shah ip dsp syed hadi ip dsp syed akber shah ip dsp muhammad javed ip dsp muhammad hassan mir sip ip muhammad sikandar asi sip khadim hussain hc asi muhammad bashir hc asi akber mehdi hc asi muslim hussain hc asi shaheena hc lasi muhammad kazim fc up hc shabbier hussain fc up hc jaffar hussain fc up hc shamim akhtar fc lup hc fatima fc lup hc shakoor ali hc asi muhammad ismail fc asi muhammad bashir fc up hc muhammad baqir fc up hc muhammad ali fc up hc muhammad ishaq fc sgc ghulam abbas fc up hc muhammad raza fc up hc muhammad ejaz fc up hc muhammad fc up hc ehsan ali fc up hc page muhammad yaqoob fc up hc imran hussain fc sgc ahmed ali fc up hc muhammad khan fc up hc gulzar hussain fc up hc ghulam mehdi fc sgc manzoor hussain fc sgc sayed fazil shah fc up hc muhammad qasim fc sgc muhammad khan fc up hc fida hussain fc up hc wazir nasir hussain fc up hc suliman haider fc up hc muhammad ibrahim fc sgc noor jahan fc lup hc muzfar ali khan fc up hc nisar hussain fc up hc fida hussain fc up hc muhammad yousaf fc up hc niaz ali fc up hc ghulam muhammad fc up hc muhammad ibrahim fc up hc fida hussain fc up hc s.muhammad ali shah fc up hc muhammad iqbal fc up hc muhammad nazir fc up hc muhammad ishaq fc up hc ghulam ali fc up hc mushtaq ahmed fc up hc niaz ali fc up hc kacho ejaz fc up hc hussan ali fc up hc muhammad yousuf fc up hc shamsher ali fc up hc aqeel hussain fc up hc muhammad iahaq fc sgc s. zulfiqar fc up hc aahiq hussain fc sgc sayed zulfiqar fc up hc azhar hussain fc up hc hamidullah fc up hc wazir hussain fc sgc ghulam muhammad fc up hc maryam fc lup hc page shabbir hussain fc up hc w. ghulam muhammad fc up hc zahid hussain fc up hc jaffar ali fc up hc s. muhammad ali shah fc up hc s. muhammad abbas fc up hc muhammad pervaiz fc up hc muhammad yaqoob fc sgc muhammad zaqir fc up hc abdul ali fc up hc muhammad sharif fc up hc muhammad ismail fc sgc sayed ahmed shah fc uphc zahid hussain fc uphc w. muhammad naseem fc up hc baqir but fc sgc muhammad ejaz fc up hc nisar hussain fc up hc ehsan ali fc up hc muhammad ismail fc up hc sajjad hussain fc up hc aminullah fc up hc muhammad anwar fc up hc hasnain rafi fc up hc gulzar hussain fc up hc iftikhar hussain fc up hc sayed hafiz ali shah fc up hc ghulam abbas fc up hc shoukat ali fc up hc muhammad iqbal fc up hc kacho yousuf fc sgc ghulam nabi fc up hc muhammad hussain fc up hc muhammad taqi fc up hc muhammad siraj fc up hc muhammad habib fc up hc muhammad ali fc up hc sayed kamal akhtar fc up hc nizamud din fc up hc sayed mehmood fc up hc sajjad hussain fc up hc firdos ali fc up hc muhammad ali fc up hc muhammad hassan fc up hc page nisar ali fc up hc muhammad yousuf fc up hc sayed kazim shah fc up hc muhammad nazir fc up hc summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder dsp sp ip dsp sip ip asi sip hc asi hc lady asi hc asi driver fc asi fc uphc fc lady uphc fc uphc driver fc sgc fc sgc driver total: annexure -k shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in district ghanche name rank actual rank shoulder rank abdul rahim dsp sp ghulam hssain azad ip dsp muhammad hanif ip dsp muhammad ibrhim sip ip muhammad afzal asi sip manzoor hussain hc asi muhammad ismail hc asi khadam hussain hc asi ghulam muhammad hc asi ghualm mustafa fc up hc abdur rehim fc up hc rustem ali fc up hc muhammad ishaq fc up hc muhammad hussain fc up hc page ali raza fc up hc ishtiaq hussain fc up hc enaya ali fc up hc shabbir hussain fc up hc dawood ali fc up hc uzair ali fc up hc sher baz hussain fc up hc fazil ali fc up hc ali khan fc up hc muhammad iqbal fc up hc rozi ali fc up hc ishfaq zakir fc up hc muhammad basher fc up hc kifayat ali fc up hc hanain fc sgc shuakat ali fc sgc muhammad op fc sgc zamin ali fc sgc ghulam hasnain fc sgc asad ali fc sgc mehdi fc sgc zamin ali fc sgc abdul ghafoor fc sgc abdul qayum fc up hc yousaf ali fc sgc yousaf ali fc sgc muhammad ali fc up hc muhammad jaffar fc up hc muhammad yousaf fc up hc dilshad hussian fc up hc mehboob fc sgc muhammd hassan fc sgc abdul krim fc sgc muhammad ilyas fc sgc shahid hussain fc up hc ahmed ali fc up hc muhammad ibrahim fc up hc ghulam abbas fc up hc zafar hussain fc up hc page ghulam rasool fc up hc muhammad ilyas fc up hc ghulam hussain fc up hc muhammad ibrahim fc up hc muhammad hussain fc up hc summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of rank holder dsp sp ip dsp sip ip asi sip hc asi fc uphc fc sgc total: annexure -l shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in district kharmang s. no. name of official actual rank shoulder rank abdul majeed dsp sp kacho nisar hussain asi sip muhammad hussain hc asi khadim hussain hc asi shafa ali hc asi muhammad abbas fc hc ali fc hc k. muhammad raza fc up hc ghulam hadier fc up hc ghulam mehdi fc up hc muhammad ibrahim fc up hc syed muhammd abbas fc up hc muhammad ali abid fc up hc driver syed kabeer hussain fc sgc ghulam hassain fc up hc imtiaz ali fc up hc zahid hussain fc up hc driver muhammad taqi fc up hc muhammad imtiaz hussain fc up hc page sakhi hassan fc sgc muhammad iqbal fc up hc driver sajjad hussain fc up hc muhammad ali fc up hc ashraf hussain fc sgc azher hussain fc up hc muhammad baqir fc up hc muhammad ashraf fc up hc driver iqbal ali khan fc up hc kacho imtaz fc up hc summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder dsp sp asi sip hc asi fc hc fc uphc fc uphc driver fc sgc total: annexure -m shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in district shigar s. no. name of official actual rank shoulder rank syed ilyas hussain dsp sp ghulam mehdi ip dsp muhammad nadeem hc asi yousaf ali fc up hc osat ali fc up hc mehdi hussan fc up hc dilshad ali fc up hc ali ahned fc up hc zamin ali fc up hc nisar hussain fc up hc nisar hussain fc sgc fida ali fc up hc mirza muhammad sadiq fc up hc page muhammad ibrhim fc up hc rustam ali fc up hc ibrahim farooqi fc sgc sikandar ali fc sgc abdul mateen fc sgc muhammad hussain fc sgc muhammd hussain fc sgc summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder dsp sp ip dsp hc asi fc uphc fc sgc total: annexure -n shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in arp s. no. name of official actual rank shoulder rank abul rauf dsp sp syed mazahir hussain asi sip syed hussain hc asi pakhtoon wali hc asi ali akhter hc asi ahsan ali zakir hc asi mohsin wali fc asi muhammad ismail fc asi ejaz ahmed fc up hc mujeeb ur -rehaman fc up hc shehbaz ali fc up hc ghulam muhammad fc up hc abdul qayoom fc up hc ali ahmed jan fc up hc r. shahadat hussain fc up hc syed tahir shah fc up hc walayat ali fc up hc abdul ghani fc up hc mukhatar ali fc up hc kamal din fc up hc page nusrat ali fc up hc asgar khan fc up hc juma mir fc up hc ghulam muhammad fc up hc abdul rashid fc up hc shehzad ali fc up hc sajjad khan fc up hc farhad ali fc up hc dilshad ali fc up hc ehsan ali fc up hc muhammad anwar fc up hc manzoor hussain fc up hc muhammad yaqoob fc up hc muhammad yousaf fc up hc fida hussain fc up hc s.kazim shah fc up hc syed mehmood fc up hc akhter hussain fc up hc fazil ali fc up hc ghulam muhammad fc up hc rajab ali fc up hc jafar ali fc up hc kacho ali khan fc up hc raja shah qasim fc up hc waqar ahmad fc up hc zulfiqar ali fc up hc abdul gafoor fc up hc abdul mateen fc up hc shehnshah fc up hc hafizullah fc up hc raees ahmad fc up hc jahangeer fc up hc kamran fc up hc muhammad ibrahim fc up hc aziz-ur- rehman fc up hc maturrehman fc up hc fazal elahi fc up hc mujeebur rehman fc up hc muhammad qasim fc up hc shahsuddin fc up hc nimatullah fc up hc sher ahmed fc up hc muhammad jalal fc up hc jan alam fc up hc page sanaullah fc up hc abdur rehim fc up hc ghohar fc up hc rafiqullah fc up hc shehzad muneer fc up hc hidayat ullah fc up hc jalalud din fc up hc muhammad asif fc up hc qaisar zaman fc up hc ziaur rehman fc up hc sayed baqir shah fc up hc mubashir hussain fc up hc kamal hussain fc up hc azmat ali fc up hc altaf hussain fc up hc dildar ahmed fc up hc iqbal hussain fc up hc tanveer ahmed fc up hc shafiqullah fc up hc meraj alam fc up hc niat wali fc up hc abdul ghaffer fc up hc sher alam fc up hc samiullah fc up hc safiullah fc up hc muhammad amin fc up hc zafar iqbal fc up hc muhammad hussain fc up hc mehmoodullah fc up hc imtiaz ahmed fc up hc ziaul haq fc up hc sherullah fc up hc mehmoodur rehman fc up hc shah khan fc up hc jahanzaib fc up hc abdul qayoom fc up hc rahmat khan fc up hc summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder dsp sp asi sip hc asi page fc asi fc uphc total: annexure -o shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in sb gb s. no. name of official actual rank shoulder rank imtiaz hussain asi sip abdul basit hc asi saleem khan hc asi sher dad fc up hc roziman shah fc up hc imran hassan fc up hc tahzibul hussan fc up hc muhammad yaqoob fc driver up hc driver syd ubaidullah shah fc up hc shabbir hussain fc up hc abbas ali fc up hc qaisar iqbal fc up hc abdul sabir fc up hc mumtaz hussain fc up hc jahan fc sgc dostdar ali fc sgc yaqoob –ud-din fc up hc abdul sabit fc up hc fida muhammad fc up hc nadeem anjum fc up hc adil jan fc sgc naveed anjum fc up hc sher wali fc sgc sher jahan fc up hc mohuddin fc up hc muhammad iqbal fc sgc khaliullah fc sgc irshad alm fc sgc syed yasin shah fc sgc muhammad iftikhar fc sgc shahid hussain fc up hc muhammad shafique fc up hc waseem abbas fc up hc ashifaq wali fc up hc summary page s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder asi sip hc asi fc uphc fc sgc fc driver uphc driver total: annexure -p shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in ctd gb s. no. name of official actual rank shoulder rank abdul hanan ip dsp sher alam sip ip rehamtullah asi sip baseer abbas hc asi muhammad hussain hc asi nasir shah hc asi muhammad ibrahim hc asi muhammad afzal fc up hc barkatullah fc up hc abdul mobin fc up hc muhabat hussain fc up hc muhammad alam fc up hc ahsan ali fc up hc ilyas hussain fc up hc ibrar hussain fc up hc mohsin ali fc up hc nazir ahmed fc up hc imtaiz ali fc up hc ghulam abbas fc up hc sajjad hussain fc up hc shehbaz ali fc up hc abdul rauf fc up hc maqsood alam fc up hc mir baz ali fc up hc ashigue hussain fc up hc abdul wahab fc up hc amadullah fc up hc basharat ali fc up hc abdur raheem fc up hc ghualm abbas fc up hc page summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder ip dsp sip ip asi sip hc asi fc uphc total: annexure -q shoulder rank granted to police officers officials in key point gb s. no. name of official actual rank shoulder rank muhammad jabir hc asi muhammad farooq fc asi muhammad saghir fc up hc muhammad alam fc up hc shafi muhammd fc up hc ghulab shah fc up hc sulantan mir fc up hc khursheed ahmed fc up hc nadeem hussain fc up hc shehzad mir fc up hc momin shah fc up hc zulfiqar ali fc up hc taruf hussain fc up hc shamshad hussain fc up hc ejaz ahmed fc up hc aminullah fc up hc muhammad kazim fc up hc najumul hassan fc up hc muhammad hassan fc up hc ghulam muhammd fc up hc ghulam ali fc up hc kachu ehsan fc up hc kamalud din fc up hc kairm khan fc up hc page saltanat fc up hc nusrat ali fc up hc iqbal haider fc up hc busairo fc sgc muhammad hameed fc sgc yar muhammd fc sgc shabbir hussain fc sgc irshad hussain fc sgc najat ali fc sgc najaf shah fc sgc inayat ali fc sgc babar khan fc sgc abdul hanan fc sgc abdul qavi fc sgc babar khan fc sgc shehzada khan fc sgc abdur rauf fc sgc mansoor khan fc sgc muhammad iqbal fc sgc muhammad iqbal skd- fc sgc ghulam hussain fc sgc shabbir hussain fc sgc akbar ali fc sgc basharat hussain fc sgc gulzar hussain fc sgc shakir hussain fc sgc muhammad karim fc sgc manzoor hussain fc sgc muhammad kalam fc sgc sherbaz ali fc sgc irshad ali fc sgc ibrar hussain fc sgc zulfiqar ali fc sgc shahzad gul fc sgc shakeel ahmad fc sgc summary s. no. actual rank shoulder rank number of holder page hc asi fc asi fc uphc fc sgc total: annexure -u officers officials of gb police who have been promoted without fulfilling the codal farmalities of mandatory training courses s. no. name of officers officials present place of posting initial appointment present rank ramaks abdul rahim siu fc sp the officer has been promoted from fc to ip by exempting the mandatory training of lower school, intermediate upper class course by the then igp's. tehzeeb ul hassan cpo asi ip the officer has been granted out of turn promotion by exempting the mandotray training of upper class course. karimullah jan cid fc sip the individual was performing duties as driver with the then igp's and his promotion has been made without fulfilling the codal farmalities of mandatory training. sher azam kksf fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. wazir azam kksf fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. maqsood ali ptc fc asi without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school intermediate class course. noor khan diamer fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. shoukat wali kksf fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. noor -ul-amin arp fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. ghulam dastagir ghizer fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. noor muhammad ghanche fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. ghulam abbas shigar fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. page baseer abbas cid fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. muhammad khushdad gilgit fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. shahid hussain gilgit fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. gul dahoor ghizer lfc lhc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. shahina akhtar skardu lfc lhc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. a substantial material was received by this court regarding the undue ut of turn promotion in gilgit -baltistan police department. consequently, the case was taken up in court on .. under article read with article of the gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, (herein called as order, read with article () of the constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan both the aforementioned articles of the order, and article () of the constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan are reproduced for convenience as under:- quote article () () of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self -governance) order, :- article original jurisdiction: () without prejudice to the provisions of article -, the supreme appellate court, on an application of any aggrieved party, shall if it considers that a question of general public importance with reference to the enforcement of any of the fundamental rights conferred by part ii of this order is involved, have the power to make declaratory order of the nature mentioned in the said article. () an applicatio made under clause () shall be a bench comprising not less than two judges to be constituted by the chief judge. article order to override other laws, etc: page the provision of this order shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the provisions of any law for the time being in force except that in case if conflict between the laws of pakistan and the laws framed under this order, the laws of pakistan shall prevail. article () of the constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan original jurisdiction of supreme court: () without prejudice to the provisions of article ,the supreme court shall, if it considers that question of public importance with reference to the enforcement of any of the fundamental rights conferred by chapter i of part ii is involved, have the power to make an order of the nature mentioned in the said article. unquote the power and authority to take suo moto notice is available to this court under article read with article of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, is akin to the power conferred upon the () of the constitution of pakistan that in case of conflict between the laws of pakistan and the laws framed under the orde r, the law of pakistan shall prevail. in view of the above provision of law, article () of the constitution of pakistan shall prevail while taking suo moto action notice by this court. this court has taken cognizance of the matter accordingly as question of public importance with reference to the enforcement of any of the fun damental rights conferred by part-ii of the order, is involved. the decisions rendered by the supreme appellate court under its original and appellate jurisdiction are enforceable throughout gilgit -baltistan whereas al the executive and judicial authorities in gilgit -baltistan have to act in aid of the supreme appellate court in implementation of its page judgments as provided in the sub articles () and () of the gilgit baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, it is further clarified that under article () of the constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan regard ing its original jurisdiction in case he supreme court of pakistan, if it considers that question of public importance with reference the enforcement of any of the fundamental rights conferred by chapter i of part ii is involved, have the power to make an order of the nature mentioned in the said article. likewise this court in such situation if anything or material comes in its notice, this court in pursuance of article of the order, is empowered to take cognizance as provided under article () of the constitution of pakistan. since, the out of turn promotions in gilgit -baltistan is was unprecedented which relates to the question of general public importance and infringement of fundamental rights to large number of poor police officials, therefore, this court took suo moto and heard the case at length. it is pertinent to note with pain that the aforementioned police of ficers officials of police department gilgit -baltistan who have been granted undue and out of turn promotions etc without observing the codal formalities and man datory police rules which in our considered view are not tenable in law. for convenience the detail of such police officers officials of gilgit -baltistan police is reproduced hereunder: page annexure -a. police officers officials of gilgit -baltistan police, granted out of turn promotion:- name of officer official current place of posting initial appointment actual rang present rank after out of turn promotion promotion from one rank to another date of promotion reasons of granting out of turn promotions authority granted out of turn promotion tehzeeb ul hassan cpo asi bps sip bps- ip bps- sip to ip bps- -- extra ordinary performance in the fields of academics(ph.d) igp gilgit baltistan muhammad yasin khan district hunza asi (bs -) sip (bs ip (bs -) sip to ip (bs-) -- extra ordinary performance in the arrest of wanted terrorist farmanullah igp gb karimullah jan cid fc (bs -) hc (bs sip (bs -) hc to asi (bs good performance igp gb ghulam mohiuddin district gilgit asi (bs -) asi (bs-) sip bs asi to sip (bs- -- arrest of proclaimed offender igp gb muhammad hussain district gilgit asi (bs -) asi (bs-) sip bs asi to sip (bs arrest of proclaimed offender igp gb noor alam district diamer fc (bs -) hc (bs-) asi (bs hc to asi (bs -- extra ordinary performance in the arrest of wanted terrorist farmanullah igp gb maqsood ali ptc fc(bs -) hc(bs asi(bs -) fc to hc (bs-) hc to asi (bs-) -- having proficiency in pipe band of police training college igp gb shamsher khan ptc fc(bs -) hc(bs asi(bs -) fc to hc(bs -) hc to asi(bs -) -- having proficiency in brass band of police training college igp gb baseer abbas cid fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to hc(bs -) -- for receiving tamgha -e- imtiaz igp gb mansoor khan district gilgit fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to hc(bs -) dig police hqs abdul sharif district gilgit fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to hc(bs -) ssp gilgit akbar hussain district gilgit fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to hc (bs-) extra ordinary performance igp gb sultan khan district gilgit fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to hc(bs -) extra ordinary performance igp gb shah zaman district gilgit fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to hc(bs -) extra ordinary performance igp gb muhammad khushadad district gilgit fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to hc(bs -) ssp gilgit shahid hussain district gilgit fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to hc(bs -) ssp gilgit shaukat wali kksf fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to hc(bs -) -- extra ordinary performance in igp gb page the arrest of wanted terrorist farmanullah sher azam kksf fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to hc(bs -) -- extra ordinary performance in the arrest of wanted terrorist farmanullah igp gb wazir azam kksf fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to hc(bs -) -- extra ordinary performance in the arrest of wanted terrorist farmanullah igp gb noor -ul-amin arp fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to hc(bs -) on account of arrest of proclaimed offender commandant arp ghulam dastagir district ghizer fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to lhc(bs -- extra ordinary performance in the abduction case of two girls igp gb noor khan district diamer fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to hc(bs -) -- extra ordinary performance in the arrest of wanted terrorist farmanullah igp gb shahina akhtar district skardu lfc(bs -) lhc(bs lfc(bs -) lfc to lhc(bs ssp skardu shakoor ali district skardu fc(bs -) hc(bs fc(bs -) lfc to lhc(bs ssp skardu ghulam abbas district shigar fc(bs -) fc(bs hc(bs -) fc to hc(bs -) -- on account of arrest of an accused of an murder case ssp skardu -sd- -sd- -sd- admin officer cpo registrar cpo aig establishment deputy secretary (police prisons annex -b police officers officials of gilgit -baltistan police promoted without mandatory police courses s. name of officer fficial current place of posting initial appointm ent presen rank promotion from one rank to another date of promoti on whether mandatory police courses qualified exemption from mandatory police course, if any date of superannua tion course yes no abdul rahim crime branch fc (bs -) sp (bs fc to hc (bs-) lower school course no unlawful exemption from lower school, intermediate class course has given by igp vide office order no.igp dated ... hc to asi (bs-) -- intermedi ate class course no asi to sip (bs-) -- sip to ip (bs-) -- upper class course no no ip to dsp (bs-) -- advance class course yes dsp to sp (bs-) -- tahira yasub sp hunza sip (bs -) sp (bs sip to ip (bs-) ladies upper class yes page ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course jahangir hussain logistics branch asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course hafeez ul rehman district gilgit asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course syed ilyas hussain district shigar asi (bs-) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course hassa ali kksf asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course abdul rauf reserve police asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course abdul rahim district ghanche asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course abdul majeed district kharmang asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course jan muhamm ad governor house gb asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course ahmad shabbir district skardu asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course page abdul qayyum khan chief court gb asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course muhamm ad ayaz district gilgit asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course muhamm ad yousuf special branch asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course nasir abbas district skardu asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course darwaish ali district ghanche fc (bs -) dsp (bs-) fc to hc (bs-) lower school course yes hc to asi (bs-) intermedi ate class yes asi to sip (bs-) sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course sher khan cid asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course zahid iqbal ptc gilgit asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course javed iqbal district nagar asi (bs -) dsp (bs-) asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course abdul khaliq district skardu fc (bs -) dsp (bs-) fc to hc (bs-) lower school course yes hc to asi (bs-) intermedi ate class yes page asi to sip (bs-) sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course amir ullah district diamer fc (bs -) dsp (bs-) fc to hc (bs-) lower school course yes hc to asi (bs-) intermedi ate class yes asi to sip (bs-) sip to ip (bs-) upper class course yes ip to dsp (bs-) advance class course no not nominated for course tehzeeb ul hassan cpo asi (bs -) ip (bs- asi to sip (bs-) probation er course yes sip to ip (bs-) -- upper class course no exemption of upper class course has been given by igp vide office order no igp () dated .. subsequently endosed by cm gb vide leter no. june, muhamm ad yasin khan district hunza asi(bs -) ip (bs sip to ip (bs-) -- upper class course no no maqsood ali ptc fc asi (bs-) fc to hc (bs-) lower school course no band staff hc to asip (bs-) intermedi ate class no shamsher khan ptc fc asi (bs-) fc to hc (bs-) lower school course no band staff hc to asip (bs-) -- intermedi ate class no noor alam district diamer fc asi (bs-) hc to asi (bs-) intermedi ate class no no nasir shah cid fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no baseer abbas cid fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) lower school course no no shoukat wali kksf fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no sher azam kksf fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no wazir azam kksf fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no noor -ul- amin arp fc hc (bs fc to hc (bps -) .. lower school course no no sahib jan ptc fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) lower school course no band staff page alif khan ptc fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no band staff muhamm ad ismail ptc fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) lower school course no no yawar hussain ptc fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) lower school course no no jan muhamm ad ptc fc hc (bs fc to hc (bps -) lower school course no no muhamm ad muslim ptc fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no johar ali ptc fc hc (bs fc to hc (bps -) -- lower school course no no mansoor khan district gilgit fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no abdul sharif district gilgit fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) lower school course no no akbar hussain district gilgit fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no sultan khan district gilgit fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no shah zaman district gilgit fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no muhamm ad khushdad district gilgit fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no shahid hussain district gilgit fc hc(bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no gul dahoor district ghizer lfc lhc (bs-) lfc to lhc (bs-) -- lower school course no no ghulam dastigar district ghizer fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no noor khan district diamer fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no shahina akhtar district skardu lfc lhc (bs-) fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no ghulam medhi district skardu fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) lower school course no no shakoor ali district skardu fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no noor muhamm ad district ghanche fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no nisa bano district ghanche lfc lhc (bs-) fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no ghulam abbas district shigar fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- lower school course no no s. name of officer official current place of posting initial appointment present rank promotion to rank, in which codal formalities not fulfilled date of promotion details of codal formalities transgressed authority granted promoton without fulfilling codal formalities page abdul rahim crime branch fc (bs -) sp (bs fc to hc (bs -) no dpc proceedings held for his promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower, intermediate upper class course, therefore he was not enlisted to list -c, d, f. the admission to these promotion lists is mandatory for promotion to the rank of hc, asi, si ip respectively. no authority can exempt any officer from these mandatory courses promote an officer without being admission to the above mentioned promotion lists c, d, f. igp gb hc to asi (bs -) -- igp gb asi to sip (bs- -- igp gb sip to ip (bs -) -- igp gb ip to dsp (bs -) -- he has however, qualified advance class course, but it can not justify presvious unlawful promotions. cs home secretary dsp to sp (bs -- tehzeeb ul hassan cpo asi (bs -) ip (bs sip to ip (bs -) no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the requisite length of service was relaxed as special case by igp gb. he neither qualified upper class course nor enlisted to list -f igp gb muhammad yasin khan hunza, attached with nab asi (bs -) ip (bs sip to ip (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the requisite length of service was not complete he neither qualified upper class course nor enlisted to list -f igp gb ghulam mohiuddin district gilgit asi (bs -) sip bs-) asi to sip (bs -- no dpc proceedings held for their promotion. although they had been completed probationer course intermedniate class course respectively, however being junior not enlsited to list -e igp gb muhammad hussain district gilgit asi (bs -) sip bs-) asi to sip (bs -- igp gb noor alam district diamer fc (bs -) asi (bs hc to asi (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for his promotion. the officer didn qualify intermediate class course was not enlisted to list -d igp gb maqsood ali ptc fc (bs -) asi(bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for his promotion. the officer didn qualify lower intermediate class course was not enlisted to list -d. he could have been promoted to the rank of hc, only on illiterate quota, without qualifying lower class course. igp gb hc to asi (bs -) -- shamsher khan ptc fc (bs -) asi(bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for his promotion. the officer didn qualify lower igp gb page hc to asi (bs -) -- intermediate class course was not enlisted to list -d. he could have been promoted to the rank of hc, only on illiterate quota, without qualifying lower class course. baseer abbas cid fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings for his promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c, when he was promoted to the rank of hc, on -. however, he has passed the lower school course on igp gb shoukat wali kksf fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. igp gb sher azam kksf fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. igp gb wazir azam kksf fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. igp gb noor -ul-amin arp fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. commandant arp mansoor khan district gilgit fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. dig police hqs abdul sharif district gilgit fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. ssp gilgit akbar hussain district gilgit fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. igp gb sultan khan district gilgit fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. igp gb shah zaman district gilgit fc (bs -) hc (bs- fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. igp gb muhammad khushdad district gilgit fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. ssp gilgit page shahid hussain district gilgit fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. ssp gilgit sahib jan ptc fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. igp gb alif khan ptc fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. comdt ptc muhammad ismail ptc fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs-) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. principal prtc yawar hussain ptc fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. principal prtc jan muhammad ptc fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. principal prtc muhammad muslim ptc fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. dig hqs johar ali ptc fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. dig hqs gul dahoor district ghizer lfc (bs -) lhc (bs-) lfc to lhc (bs -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. sp ghizer ghulam dastagir district ghizer fc (bs -) hc (bs lfc to lhc (bs no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. igp gb noor khan district diamer fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. igp gb noor muhammad district ghanche fc (bs -) hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. sp ghanche nisa bano district ghanche fc (bs -) hc (bs lfc to lhc (bs -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not elisted to list -c. sp ghanche ghulam abbas district shigar fc (bs -) hc (bs- fc to hc (bs -) -- no dpc proceedings held for promotion. the officer didn't qualify lower school course was not sp skardu page elisted to list -c. annex -d police officers officials of gilgit -baltistan police, promoted without lawful authority s. name of officer official current place of posting initial appointment present rank promotion from one rank to another date of promotion promoting authority from one rank to another (prescribed as per rules authority promoted unlawfully abdul rahim crime branch fc (bs -) sp (bs fc to hc (bs -) district sp igp gb hc to asi (bs -) -- range dig igp gb asi to sip (bs -) -- range dig igp gb sip to ip (bs -) -- igp ip to dsp (bs -) -- cs home secretary dsp to sp (bs -- cs home secretary tehzeeb ul hassan cpo asi (bs -) ip (bs -) asi to sip (bs -) range dig igp gb sip to ip (bs -) -- igp gb ghulam mohiuddin district gilgit asi (bs -) sip bs asi to sip (bs -) -- range dig igp gb muhammad hussain district gilgit asi (bs -) sip bs asi to sip (bs -) range dig igp gb maqsood ali ptc fc asi (bs -) fc to hc (bs -) district sp igp gb hc to asip (bs -) range dig igp gb shamsher khan ptc fc asi (bs -) fc to hc (bs -) district sp igp gb hc to asip (bs -) -- range dig igp gb noor alam district diamer fc asi (bs -) hc to asi (bs -) range dig igp gb baseer abbas cid fc hc (bs -) fc to hc (bs-) district sp igp gb shoukat wali kksf fc hc (bs -) fc to hc (bs -) -- district sp igp gb sher azam kksf fc hc (bs -) fc to hc (bs -) -- district sp igp gb wazir azam kksf fc hc (bs -) fc to hc (bs -) -- district sp igp gb sahib jan ptc fc hc (bs -) fc to hc (bs -) principal prtc igp gb muhammad muslim ptc fc hc (bs -) fc to hc (bs -) -- district sp aig hq johar ali ptc fc hc (bs -) fc to hc (bps -) -- district sp aig hq page mansoor khan district gilgit fc hc (bs fc to hc (bs -) -- district sp dig hq akbar hussain district gilgit fc hc (bs -) fc to hc (bs -) -- district sp igp gb sultan khan district gilgit fc hc (bs -) fc to hc (bs-) -- district sp igp gb shah zaman district gilgit fc hc (bs -) fc to hc (bs -) -- district sp igp gb ghulam dastigar district ghizer fc hc (bs -) fc to hc (bs -) -- district sp igp gb noor khan district diamer fc hc (bs -) fc to hc (bs -) -- district sp igp gb annex -e police officers officials of gilgit -baltistan police, promoted without lawful authority s. no. name of officer official place of posting initial appointment actual rank shoulder rank date of shoulder promotion authority given shoulder promotion reason for awarding shoulder promotion farman ali bln range dsp sp aig dig -- igp gb muhammad hassan mir district skardu fc sip ip sp skardu muhammad ilyas district skardu fc hc asi sp skardu hassan baig district skardu fc hc asi sp skardu muhammad ali district skardu fc hc asi sp skardu ehsan ali district skardu fc hc asi sp skardu muhammad bashir district skardu fc hc asi sp skardu ehsan ali zakir district skardu fc hc asi sp skardu shahina akhtar district skardu fc l-hc l-asi dig bln range muhammad ibrahim district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu hasnain rafi district skardu fc fc uphc dig bln range muhammad anwar district skardu fc fc uphc dig bln range iftikhar malik district skardu fc fc uphc dig bln range firdos ali- district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu niaz ali district skardu fc fc uphc igp gb kacho ejaz ahmad district skardu fc fc uphc dig bln range muhammad afzal district skardu fc fc uphc sp skardu fida hussain district skardu fc fc uphc igp gb syed zulfiqar district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu syed zulfiqar district skardu fc fc uphc dig bln range sikandar azam district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu muhammad ashraf district skardu fc fc uphc sp kharmang gulzar hussain district skardu fc fc uphc sp skardu muhammad bashir district skardu fc fc uphc sp skardu muhammad younus district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu mushtaq ahmed district skardu fc fc uphc dig bln range page muhammad yousuf district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu muhammad siraj elite district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu muhammad habib qrf district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu muhammad ali elite district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu mukhtar ahmed district skardu fc fc sgc dig hq muhammad sharif district skardu fc fc uphc driver dig bln range shoukat ali district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu muhammad district skardu fc fc uphc muhammad ejaz- district skardu fc fc uphc aug, comdt arp muhammd sharif district skardu fc fc uphc dig bln range maryam district skardu fc lfc l-uphc dig bln range muhammad kazim district skardu fc fc uphc comdt arp nisar hussain district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu fida hussain district skardu fc fc uphc dig bln range muhammad ismail district skardu fc fc sgc comdt arp muhammad ali district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu sajjad hussain district skardu fc fc sgc sp skardu wazir hussain district skardu fc fc sgc dig bln range fidaullah district skardu fc fc uphc driver june, ssp skardu muhammad yaqoob district skardu fc fc sgc sp skardu jaffar ali district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu mohammad pervaiz district skardu fc fc uphc dig bln range muhammad ali shah district skardu fc fc uphc sp skardu sajjadhussain district skardu fc fc uphc dig bln range muhammad iqbal district skardu fc fc sgc sp skardu ghulam mehdi district skardu fc fc sgc driver march, sp skardu syed ahmed shah district skardu fc fc uphc driver sp skardu aminullah district skardu fc fc uphc ssp arp akber ali district skardu fc fc uphc sp skardu muhammad ali district skardu fc fc sgc driver ssp skardu qammar abbas district skardu fc fc sgc sp skardu ahmad ali district skardu fc fc uphc sp skardu ghulam muhammad district skardu fc fc uphc sp pts skardu muhammad qasim district skardu fc fc sgc dig bln range muhammd iqbal district skardu fc fc uphc sp skardu ghulam hassan district skardu fc fc uphc driver ssp skardu muhammad zakir district skardu fc fc uphc sp arp ashiqhussian district skardu fc fc sgc sp skardu ehsan ali district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu page niaz ali district skardu fc fc sgc dig bln range muhammad essa district skardu fc fc uphc ssp gilgit ghulam ali district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu ghulam muhammad district skardu fc fc uphc sp skardu muhammad ameen district skardu fc fc uphc sp skardu mehdi hassan district skardu fc fc uphc sp skardu shabbir hussain district skardu fc fc uphc dig bln range baqir but district skardu fc fc sgc sp skardu imran hussain district skardu fc fc sgc sp ksff muhammad naseem district skardu fc fc uphc comdt arp shakir hussain district skardu fc fc uphc dig bln range ahmad shabbir district skardu asi dsp sp igp gb (verbal order) abdul khaliq district skardu fc dsp sp ds prisons igp gb (verbal order) syed hadi district skardu fc ip dsp igp gb (verbal order) syed akber shah district skardu fc ip dsp igp gb (verbal order) manzoorhussain district skardu fc asi sip sp skardu muslim hussain district skardu fc hc asi dig bln range shakoor ali district skardu fc hc driver asi driver igp gb (verbal order) imtiaz hussain district skardu fc fc uphc sp skardu muhammad khan district skardu fc fc uphc sp skardu noor jahan district skardu fc lfc l-uphc dig bln range shamim akhtar district skardu fc lfc l-uphc dig bln range fatima district skardu fc lfc l-uphc dig bln range muzaffar ali khan district skardu fc fc sgc sp skardu hamidullah district skardu fc fc uphc igp gb jaffarhussain district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu akbar khan -ksf district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu muhammad iqbal district skardu fc fc uphc igp gb muhammad nazir district skardu fc fc uphc dig bln range shabbir hussain district skardu fc fc uphc sp arp syed fazil shah district skardu fc fc sgc sp skardu kacho yousuf district skardu fc fc sgc march, ssp skardu nisar hussain district skardu fc fc sgc igp gb manzoor hussain district skardu fc fc uphc sp skardu muhammad irfan district skardu fc fc uphc ssp skardu wazir shamshad district skardu fc fc uphc sp arp ghulam rasool district skardu fc fc uphc driver june, ssp skardu page muhammad iqbal district skardu fc fc sgc driver sp arp muhammad aslam district skardu fc fc uphc dig bln range abidhussain district skardu fc fc sgc ssp skardu asghar ali district skardu fc fc sgc sp skardu ibrar malik district skardu fc fc sgc sp skardu syed ilyas hussain district shigar asi dsp sp -- igp gb muhammad ismail district shigar fc asi sip -- dig bln range muhammad naseem district shigar fc hc asi -- sp skardu osat ali district shigar fc fc uphc -- dig bln range ali ahmed jan district shigar fc fc uphc -- sp skardu yousuf ali district shigar fc fc uphc -- sp skardu medhi hassan district shigar fc fc uphc -- sp skardu nisar hussain district shigar fc fc sgc -- sp skardu gulzar hussain district shigar fc fc uphc -- sp skardu rustam ali district shigar fc fc uphc -- sp skardu noor din district shigar fc fc sgc -- sp skardu abdul mateen district shigar fc fc sgc -- sp skardu ejaz hussain district shigar fc fc sgc -- sp skardu zaman ali district shigar fc fc uphc -- sp gilgit fida ali district shigar fc fc uphc -- sp skardu knaeez fatima district shigar fc fc sgc -- sp skardu shabbir hussain district shigar fc fc uphc -- sp skardu ghulam nabi district shigar fc fc uphc -- sp skardu anwar ali district shigar fc fc sgc -- sp skardu muhammad hussain district shigar fc fc uphc -- sp skardu mirza muhammad sadiq district shigar fc fc uphc -- sp skardu gulzar hussain district shigar fc fc sgc -- sp skardu ibrahim farooqi district shigar fc fc sgc -- sp skardu skinder ali district shigar fc fc sgc -- sp skardu ali mohsin district shigar fc fc uphc driver -- sp skardu awais shigri district shigar fc fc uphc driver -- spp skardu zamin ali district shigar fc fc uphc -- comdt arp gulzar hussain district shigar fc fc sgc -- ssp skardu muhammad hussain district shigar fc fc sgc -- dy: comdt. arp ghulam rasool district shigar fc fc uphc -- sp skardu mudassir ayub cpo asip sip ip -- igp gb gallantary performance ashiq hussain cpo fc asi sip -- igp gb gallantary performance murad khan ksf fc hc sip -- igp gb gallantary performance arif hussain ksf fc hc driver asi driver record not provided igp gb gallantary performance page aziz ahmad cpo fc hc driver asi driver -- igp gb gallantary performance kaka jan cpo fc hc asi -- igp gb gallantary performance shoukat ali cpo fc hc driver asi driver -- igp gb gallantary performance aziz ali cpo fc hc driver asi driver -- igp gb gallantary performance bibi fatima cpo fc l-hc l-asi record not provided igp gb gallantary performance muhammad jalil cpo fc hc driver asi driver -- igp gb gallantary performance muhammad farooq key points fc fc asi -- aig establishment gallantary performance muhammad saghir key points fc fc uphc -- ssp kp gallantary performance muhammad alam key points fc fc uphc -- sp key points gallantary performance shafi muhammad key points fc fc uphc sp key points gallantary performance gulab shah key points fc fc uphc sp key points gallantary performance sulantan mir key points fc fc uphc sp key points gallantary performance nadeem hussain key points fc fc uphc sp key points gallantary performance shehzad mir key points fc fc uphc dig hq gallantary performance momin shah key points fc fc uphc sp key points gallantry performance zulfiqar ali key points fc fc uphc sp gilgit gallantry performance taruf hussain key points fc fc uphc -- sp key points gallantary performance ejaz ahmed key points fc fc uphc sp kp gallantary performance muhammad kazim key points fc fc uphc sp key points gallantary performance muhammad hassan key points fc fc uphc sp key points gallantary performance abdul qavi key points fc fc sgc sp key points gallantary performance babar khan (glt) key points fc fc sgc sp key points gallantary performance shehzada khan key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance abdur rauf key points fc fc sgc -- dig hq gallantary performance mansoor khan key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance muhammad iqbal (ast) key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance muhammad iqbal (skd) key points fc fc sgc sp key points gallantary performance shabbir hussain key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance akbar ali key points fc fc sgc sp key points gallantary performance basharat hussain key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance ghulam muhammad key points fc fc uphc sp key points gallantary performance ghulam ali key points fc fc uphc -- sp key points gallantary performance kachu ehsan key points fc fc uphc -- sp key points gallantary performance kamalud din key points fc fc uphc -- sp key points gallantary performance karim khan key points fc fc uphc -- sp key points gallantary performance saltanat key points fc fc uphc sep- sp key points gallantary performance najat ali key points fc fc uphc sp key points gallantary performance iqbal haider key points fc fc uphc -- sp key points gallantary performance busairo key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance page muhammad hameed key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance yar muhammad key points fc fc sgc sp diamer gallantary performance shabbir hussain key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance irshad hussain key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance maimoon shah key points fc fc sgc dig hq gallantary performance najaf shah key points fc fc sgc sp key points gallantary performance inayat ali key points fc fc sgc sp hunza nagar. gallantary performance babar khan (dmr) key points fc fc sgc sp key points gallantary performance abdul hanan key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance shakir hussain key points fc fc sgc sp key points gallantary performance muhammad karim key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance manzoor hussain key points fc fc sgc sp key points gallantary performance muhammad kalam key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance sher baz ali key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance irshad alam key points fc fc sgc -- sp gilgit. gallantary performance ibrar hussain key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance zulfiqar ali key points fc fc sgc sp key points gallantary performance shehzad gul key points fc fc sgc -- sp key points gallantary performance sikandar khan key points fc fc sgc sp key points gallantary performance ghulam hussain azad district ghanche fc ip dsp igp gb muhammad ibrahim district ghanche fc sip ip dig bln range muhammad afzal district ghanche fc asi sip dig bln range ghulam muhammad district ghanche fc hc asi dig bln range khadam hussain district ghanche fc hc asi dig bln range muhammad ismail district ghanche fc hc asi -- comdt. arp manzoor hussain district ghanche fc hc asi -- comdt. arp ghulam mustafa district ghanche fc fc uphc -- comdt. arp abdul rehman district ghanche fc fc uphc record not provided comdt. arp muhammad ishaq district ghanche fc fc uphc record not provided comdt. arp basharat hussain district ghanche fc fc uphc record not provided comdt. arp ali raza district ghanche fc fc uphc -- comdt. arp istiaq hussain district ghanche fc fc uphc record not provided sp ghanche shabbir hussain alvi district ghanche fc fc uphc -- comdt. arp dilshad hussain district ghanche fc fc uphc -- comdt. arp muhammad ilyas -- district ghanche fc fc uphc comdt. arp muhammad yousuf district ghanche fc fc uphc -- comdt. arp ghulam rasool district ghanche fc fc uphc -- comdt. arp muhammad hussain district ghanche fc fc uphc -- igp gb ahmed ali district ghanche fc fc uphc -- comdt arp page hasnain district ghanche fc fc uphc driver -- comdt. arp shujat ali district ghanche fc fc uphc -- comdt. arp nashad ali district ghanche fc fc uphc -- comdt. arp zamin ali district ghanche fc fc uphc -- sp ghanche muhammad yousuf district ghanche fc fc uphc driver -- sp ghanche muhammad bashir district ghanche fc fc uphc -- sp ghanche tania khan district ghanche lfc lfc l-uphc -- sp ghanche mubarak shriaf district ghanche fc fc uphc driver -- sp ghanche ashraf hussain district ghanche fc fc uphc -- aig sb fida ali district ghanche fc fc uphc driver -- comdt. arp abdul majeed district kharmang asi dsp sp -- igp gb kacho nisar hussain district kharmang fc asi sip -- dig bln range muhammad skinder district kharmang fc asi sip -- dig bln range khadim hussain district kharmang fc hc asi -- dig bln range shafa ali district kharmang fc hc asi -- dig bln range ghulam abbas district kharmang fc hc asi -- dig bln range muhammad hussain district kharmang fc hc asi -- dig bln range muhammad ali district kharmang fc hc asi dig bln range muhammad ali abid district kharmang fcd fc uphc driver -- dig bln range zahid hussain district kharmang fc fc uphc -- comdt arp muhammad taqi district kharmang fc fc uphc -- comdt arp azher hussain district kharmang fc fc uphc -- comdt arp saleem abbas district kharmang fc fc uphc -- dig hq imtiaz hussain khan district kharmang fc fc uphc -- ssp skardu ashraf hussain district kharmang fcd fcd uphc driver -- ssp skardu imtiaz ali district kharmang fc fc uphc -- ssp skardu muhammad baqir district kharmang fc fc uphc -- igp gb muhammad abbas district kharmang fc fc uphc -- dig bln range sakhi hassan district kharmang fc fc uphc -- comdt arp muhammad khan district kharmang fc fc uphc -- ssp skardu mehmood ali khan district kharmang fc fc uphc -- dig hq muhammad abbas district kharmang fc fc uphc -- sp kharmang ali district kharmang fc fc uphc -- sp kharmang ahmed hussain district kharmang fc fc uphc -- sp kharmang muhammad raza district kharmang fc fc uphc -- sp kharmang ghulam haider district kharmang fc fc uphc -- sp kharmang muhammad ibrahim district kharmang fc fc uphc -- sp kharmang muhammad ali khan district kharmang fc fc uphc -- sp kharmang ghulam hassan district kharmang fc fc uphc -- sp kharmang page muhammad ali district kharmang fc fcd uphc driver -- sp kharmang sajjad hussain district kharmang fc fc uphc -- sp kharmang syed kabir hussain district kharmang fc fc uphc -- sp kharmang muhammad ashraf district kharmang fc fc uphc -- sp kharmang muhammad iqbal district kharmang fc fcd uphc driver -- sp kharmang zulfiqar ali district kharmang fc fcd uphc driver -- sp kharmang muhammad hussain district kharmang fc fcd uphc driver -- sp kharmang hussain jami district hunza fc hc asi -- aig establishment naseer uddin district hunza fc fc uphc ssp gilgit sabir hussain district hunza fc fc uphc sp arp muhammad din district hunza fc fc uphc -- sp arp muhammad sarfaraz district hunza fc fc uphc -- ssp hunza nagar muhammad naeem district hunza fc fc uphc -- sp hunza nagar. naeenullah baig district hunza fc fc sgc -- sp hunza nagar. abdul aziz district hunza fc fc sgc -- sp hunza nagar. essa khan district hunza fc fc sgc -- sp hunza nagar. farman ali district hunza fc fc sgc -- sp hunza nagar. shamsuddin district hunza fc fc sgc -- sp hunza nagar. altaf hussain district hunza fc fc sgc -- sp hunza nagar. essa karim district hunza fc fc sgc -- sp hunza nagar. akram baig district hunza fc fc sgc -- sp hunza nagar. deedar karim district hunza fc fc uphc -- sp hunza nagar. kabir ahmed district hunza fc fc sgc sp hunza nagar. ghulam rasool district hunza fc fc sgc -- sp gilgit haider hussain district hunza fc fc uphc -- dig hq rizwan khan district hunza fc fc uphc -- sp hunza nagar. ikram uddin district hunza fc fc uphc -- sp hunza nagar. akhtar hussain district hunza fc fc uphc -- sp pso to igp shabnam fida district hunza fc fc sgc sp hunza (verbally) shahid ali district hunza fc fc uphc -- comdt: ptc wajid karim district hunza fc fc sgc -- sp hunza nagar. sadaruddin district hunza fc fc uphc -- sp gilgit noor din district hunza fc fc uphc -- dig gilgit range saeed jan district hunza fc fc uphc record not available igp gb (verbally) muhammad javed crimes branch fc ip dsp record not available igp gb (verbally) imtiaz hussain special branch fc asi sip -- principal pts saleem khan special branch fc hc asi -- igp gb abdul basit special branch fc hc asi -- aig establishment imran hassan special branch fc fc uphc -- aig sb page shabbir hussain special branch fc fc uphc -- aig sb mumtaz hussain special branch fc fc uphc -- aig sb syed yasin special branch fc fc sgc -- aig sb abdul sabbir special branch fc fc sgc -- aig sb irshad alam special branch fc fc sgc -- aig sb muhammad iqbal special branch fc fc sgc -- sp diamer muhammad iftikhar special branch fc fc sgc -- aig sb mohiuddin special branch fc fc uphc -- sp sb gb khaliullah special branch fc fc sgc -- ssp diamer muhammad shafique special branch fc fc uphc -- aig cid muhammad yaqoob special branch fcd fcd uphc driver -- aig sb rziman shah special branch fc fc sgc -- aig sb sher wali special branch fc fc sgc -- aig sb dostdar ali special branch fc fc sgc -- sp gilgit yasoobuddin special branch fc fc sgc -- dy comdt. arp ubaidullah shah special branch fc fc uphc -- aig sb jahan zab special branch fc fc sgc -- sp ghizer shahid hussain special branch fc fc uphc -- sp gilgit slaman khan special branch fc fc uphc -- aig sb qasir iqbal special branch fc fc uphc -- aig sb ibrar ahmed special branch fc fc uphc -- aig sb abbas ali khan special branch fc fc sgc -- aig sb tehzib ul hassan special branch fc fc uphc -- aig sb wasim abbas special branch fc fc uphc -- aig sb sherdad ali special branch fc fc uphc -- aig sb naveed anjum special branch fc fc uphc -- aig sb amir ali special branch fc fc uphc -- sp ghizer adil jan special branch fc fc sgc -- sp ghizer abdul sabit special branch fc fc sgc -- aig sb nusrat khan special branch fc fc uphc -- sp ghizer nadeem alam special branch fc fc uphc -- dy comdt. arp mushtaq ahmed special branch fc fc uphc -- ssp astore muhammad naseem special branch fc fc uphc -- dig bln range ashfaq wali special branch fc fc uphc -- sp ghizer wazir zaheer special branch fc fc uphc -- dig bln range muhammad nasir special branch fc fc uphc -- aig sb sohail ahmed special branch fc fc uphc -- aig sb fida muhammad special branch fc fc uphc -- dig hq anwar hussain district nagar fc hc asi -- aig establishment on his good performance page muhammad abbas district nagar fc fc uphc -- ssp gilgit on his good performance syed noor din district nagar fc fc uphc -- sp nagar on his good performance shoukat ali district nagar fc fc uphc -- sp hunza nagar. on his good performance sher alam district nagar fc fc uphc -- sp nagar on his good performance sabir hussain district nagar fc fc uphc -- dig hq on his good performance hussain ali district nagar fc fc uphc -- sp nagar on his good performance shahid hussain district nagar fc fc uphc -- sp nagar on his good performance yawar abbas district nagar fc fc uphc -- dy comdt. arp on his good performance shabbir hussain district nagar fc fc uphc -- sp key points his good performance muhammad sharif district nagar fc fc uphc -- sp hunza nagar. on his good performance shakoor ali district nagar fc fc uphc -- sp hunza nagar. on his good performance nasir abbas district nagar fc fc uphc -- sp nagar on his good performance dildar shah district nagar fc fc uphc -- sp hunza nagar. on his good performance hawas khan district astore fc fc uphc -- ssp astore sher ahmed district astore fc fc uphc -- ssp astore walayat khan district astore fc fc uphc -- ssp astore abdul hakim district astore fc fc uphc -- ssp astore jan muahammad district astore fc fc uphc -- ssp astore juma muhammad district astore fc fc uphc -- ssp astore muhammad yaqoub district astore fc fc uphc -- ssp astore muhammad raza district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp adam khan district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp ghushpoor ahmed district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp samiullah district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp abdul qadir district astore fc fc uphc -- aig cid ishfaq ahmed district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp abdul hadi district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp muhammad ayoub district astore fc fc uphc -- ssp astore juma khan district astore fc fc uphc feb, comdt arp ehsan wali district astore fc fc uphc feb, comdt arp muhammad iqbal district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp muhammad ibrahim district astore fc fc uphc -- ssp astore amanullah district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp shafiq ahmed district astore fc fc uphc comdt arp muhammad shafi district astore fc fc uphc -- sp astore bahadur khan district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp zulfiqar ali district astore fc fc uphc -- sp astore kamal din district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp waqar -ud-din district astore fc fc uphc ssp astore page barkat ali district astore fc fc sgc -- sp diamer ghulam hashim district astore fc fc sgc -- sp diamer naik alam district astore fc fc sgc comdt arp ghulam muhammad -i district astore fc fc uphc -- ssp astore ghulam muhammad -ii district astore fc fc uphc comdt arp muhammad younus district astore fc fc sgc sp diamer ghulam rasool district astore fc fc sgc sp diamer jabir hussain district astore fc fc sgc -- comdt arp abdul ghani district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp salma agha district astore lfc lfc l-uphc -- sp astore abdul manan -ii district astore fc fc uphc sp astore maqsood alam district astore fc fc uphc -- sp gilgit ghulam hussain district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp muhammad qayoum district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp m. nawab baig district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp muhammad mustaqim district astore fc fc sgc -- sp diamer samad mir district astore fc fc sgc record not available abdul rasheed district astore fc fc sgc -- comdt arp muhammad ibrahim district astore fc fc uphc -- comdt arp zafar aman district astore fc fc uphc dy. comdt. arp abdul rauf district astore fc fc uphc ssp astore abdul raqeeb district astore fc fc sgc sp diamer aziz-ur-rehman district astore fc fc uphc comdt arp abdul qudoos district astore fc fc uphc dec, comdt arp muhammad abdullah district astore fc fc sgc sp diamer ghulam murtaza district astore fc fc sgc ssp astore sher alam cid fc sip ip -- in recognation of his extra ordinary performance in connetion with the arrest of most wanted po namely ghulam dastagir gulab napura basin involved in case fir no. u ppc ata ps city gilgit rehmatullah cid asip asi sip -- in recognation of his extra ordinary performance in connetion with the arrest of most wanted po namely ghulam dastagir gulab napura basin involved in case fir no. u ppc page ata ps city gilgit ashiq hussain cid fc fc hc driver -- in recognation of his extra ordinary performance in connetion with the arrest of most wanted po namely ghulam dastagir gulab napura basin involved in case fir no. u ppc ata ps city gilgit muhammad hussain cid fc hc asi -- in recognation of his extra ordinary performance in connetion with the arrest of most wanted po namely alam ghulam raza sajjaida gilgit involved in case fir no. city gilgit baseer abbas cid fc hc asi -- in recognition of his extra ordinary performance in connation with the arrest of most wanted po namely alam ghulam raza sajjaida gilgit involved in case fir no. city gilgit nasir shah cid fc hc asi -- one step at ptc muhabbat hussain cid fc fc hc -- recommendation submitted by ssp gilgit kaka jan cid fc fc hc -- recommendation submitted by ssp gilgit muhd ayaz district gilgit asi dsp sp -- igp gb igp gb has issued orders as additional sp gilgit vide o.o no.igp -() pt dated 21st august, s. murtaza hussain district gilgit asi sip ip -- igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders s. ijlal hussain district gilgit fc sip ip -- igp gb (verbally) arrest of proclaimed offenders razi ullah district gilgit fc sip ip -- igp gb (verbally) arrest of proclaimed offenders sher jahan district gilgit fc asi sip -- igp gb (verbally) arrest of proclaimed offenders m. ameen district gilgit asi asi sip -- igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders ghulam fareed district gilgit fc asi sip -- igp gb (verbally) arrest of proclaimed offenders abdul latif district gilgit fc hc asi -- igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders page muhammad mustafa district gilgit fc hc sip -- igp gb (verbally) arrest of proclaimed offenders ahmed ali district gilgit fc hc asi -- dig gilgit range arrest of proclaimed offenders malik shah district gilgit fc hc asi igp gb (verbally) arrest of proclaimed offenders m. zakriya district gilgit fc hc asi -- igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders ejaz ali district gilgit fc hc asi -- igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders akhtar hussain district gilgit fc hc asi -- ssp gilgit arrest of proclaimed offenders akber hussain district gilgit fc hc asi -- dig gilgit range arrest of proclaimed offenders imran khan district gilgit fc fc hc -- igp gb (verbally) arrest of proclaimed offenders s. azeem shah district gilgit fc fc hc -- igp gb (verbally) arrest of proclaimed offenders tehzeeb hussain district gilgit fcd fcd hc driver -- igp gb (verbally) arrest of proclaimed offenders mehfoozullah district gilgit fc fc hc -- igp gb (verbally) arrest of proclaimed offenders alamgir district gilgit fc hc asi comdt. ptc arrest of proclaimed offenders tanzeem ur rehman district gilgit fc fc hc -- igp gb (verbally) arrest of proclaimed offenders ali amber district gilgit fc fc hc -- igp gb (verbally) arrest of proclaimed offenders nazeem shah district gilgit fc fc hc driver -- igp gb (verbally) arrest of proclaimed offenders mir azam arp fc hc asi igp gb muhammad akbar mehdi arp fc hc asi record not available saeed hussain arp fc hc asi record not available ali akhtar jan arp fc hc asi -- igp gb abdul nasir arp fc hc asi comdt: ptc farmanullah khan arp fc hc asi -- igp gb shakeel ahmed arp fc fc uphc record not available munwar abbas arp fc fc sgc record not available syed tahir shah arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp syed mehmood arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp dilshad ali arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp ghulam abbas arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp zahid hussain arp fc fc uphc dig bln range muhammad ibrahim arp fc fc uphc -- dig bln range ehsan ali arp fc fc uphc -- igp gb syed raza shah arp fc fc uphc -- ssp skardu ghulam muhammad arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp syed kazim arp fc fc uphc -- igp gb page gulzar ali arp fc fc uphc -- igp gb muhammad yousaf arp fc fc uphc -- igp gb walayat ali arp fc fc uphc record not available fida hussain arp fc fc uphc -- igp gb muhammad raza arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp shamsher ali arp fc fc sgc record not available nisar hussain arp fc fc sgc -- ssp skardu nisar hussain arp fc fc uphc record not available abdul ali arp fc fc sgc record not available dilshad ali arp fc fc uphc record not available ghulam nabi arp fc fc uphc -- igp gb iftikhar hussain arp fc fc uphc record not available muhammad hassan arp fc fc uphc -- dig hq muhammad ishaq arp fc fc sgc record not available jaffar ali arp fc fc uphc record not available muhammad ishaq arp fc fc sgc ssp skardu muhammad ibrahim arp fc fc sgc record not available muhammad ismail arp fc fc sgc sp skardu muhammad ishaq arp fc fc uphc record not available abdul ghafar arp fc fc uphc -- dy comdt. arp ghulam rasool arp fc fc uphc record not available ghulam muhammad arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp syed hafiz ali shah arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp wazir mubashir hassain arp fc fc uphc record not available muhammad ismail arp fc fc asi -- igp gb inam ur rehman arp fc fc uphc aig arp zulfiqar ali arp fc fc uphc -- aig establishment mujeeb ur rehman arp fc fc uphc record not available sajjad alam arp fc fc uphc -- dy comdt. arp samiullah arp fc fc uphc record not available imtaiz ahmed arp fc fc uphc -- sp astore jan alam arp fc fc uphc comdt: ptc mehmoodullah arp fc fc uphc dy comdt. arp azam khan arp fc fc uphc -- dy comdt. arp sher alam arp fc fc uphc -- dy comdt. arp shamsuddin arp fc fc sgc -- aig arp zafar iqbal up hc arp fc fc uphc dy comdt. arp abdul baqi arp fc fc sgc -- comdt arp attiqullah arp fc fc uphc record not available page mushtaq ahmed arp fc fc uphc dy comdt. arp ibadat hussain arp fc fc sgc -- dy comdt. arp juma muhammad arp fc fc uphc comdt arp adil shehzad arp fc fc sgc -- comdt arp muhammad uzair arp fc fc uphc -- comdt. arp imran ali arp fc fc uphc dy comdt. arp samiul haq arp fc fc uphc -- aig arp imtiaz ul haq arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp amir hussain arp fc fc uphc driver record not available muhammad jalal arp fc fc sgc aig arp muhammad yousuf arp fc fc uphc record not available muhammad nabi arp fc fc uphc record not available muhammad ilyas arp fc fc uphc record not available raja waqar ahmad arp fc fc uphc -- sp ghizer azmat ali arp fc fc uphc record not available ehsanullah arp fc fc sgc -- dy comdt. arp yousuf khan arp fc fc uphc -- dy comdt. arp muhammad hussain arp fc fc uphc record not available faisal abbas arp fc fc uphc record not available fazil ali arp fc fc uphc -- igp gb shukerullah baig arp fc fc uphc -- igp gb yousuf ali arp fc fc sgc -- sp ghanche muhammad hanif arp fc fc uphc record not available naik alam arp fc fc sgc comdt arp shoukat ali arp fc fc sgc -- sp ghanche syed muhammad baqir arp fc fc uphc record not available mazahir nawaz arp fc fc uphc aig cid azmat hussain arp fc fc uphc -- sp gilgit shahid iqbal arp fc fc uphc -- sp gilgit gohar farooq arp fc fc uphc record not available jaffar ali arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp ishfaq zakir arp fc fc sgc record not available ashgar ali arp fc fc uphc record not available muhammad arp fc fc uphc record not available syed muhammad ali shah arp fc fc sgc ssp skardu muhammad yaqoob arp fc fc uphc -- igp gb hanif ur rehman arp fc fc sgc record not available kacho ali khan arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp page muhammad nazir arp fc fc uphc record not available liaqat mir arp fc fc sgc record not available maqbool ahmed arp fc fc uphc record not available shamashad alam arp fc fc uphc record not available lal mast arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp nizamuddin arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp abdul ghafoor arp fc fc uphc aig establishment muhammad asif arp fc fc uphc record not available shamshad hussain (pp) arp fc fc uphc record not available tanveer ahmed arp fc fc uphc igp gb roshan khan arp fc fc sgc -- dy comdt. arp syed imtiaz hussain arp fc fc sgc record not available amjad khan arp fc fc uphc record not available abdul rashid arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp altaf hussain arp fc fc uphc comdt arp fazal ur rehman (pp) arp fc fc uphc record not available bahadur wali arp fc fc uphc comdt arp mehmood ur rehman arp fc fc uphc -- aig arp rana shahadat hussain arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp muhammad qasim arp fc fc sgc -- comdt arp uzair ali arp fc fc sgc record not available fazal ul rehman arp fc fc uphc record not available muhammad ishaq arp fc fc uphc record not available muhammad hasnain arp fc fc uphc record not available sher ahmed arp fc fc uphc -- aig establishment shoukat wali khan arp fc fc uphc -- ssp astore shah muhammad arp fc fc uphc dy comdt. arp fida hussain arp fc fc uphc record not available rehmat khan arp fc fc sgc -- comdt arp ali ahmed jan arp fc fc uphc record not available bakhtak khan (polo player) arp fcpp fc uphc record not available zia ur rehman arp fc fc uphc sp ghizer muzafar ali arp fc fc uphc -- aig cid muhammad raza arp fc fc uphc comdt arp shah jahanger arp fc fc uphc dy comdt. arp sher alam arp fc fc uphc record not available israr ud din arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp abdul mateen arp fc fc uphc record not available muhammad wakeel arp fc fc uphc comdt arp page shaheen shah arp fc fc sgc -- sp ghizer muhammad ibrahim arp fc fc uphc -- aig arp jamid hussain arp fc fc uphc record not available javed hussain arp fc fc uphc -- sp ghizer muhammad qudus arp fc fc uphc aig arp sher tullah arp fc fc uphc comdt arp muhammad sohail arp fc fc sgc record not available suliman khan arp fc fc uphc -- sp ghizer izat aman arp fc fc uphc -- dig hq kifayat ali arp fc fc uphc comdt arp rustam ali arp fc fc uphc record not available fazal ali arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp samiullah arp fc fc sgc -- sp gilgit muzaffar khan arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp wazir nusrat ali arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp ashgar khan arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp barkatullah arp fc fc uphc comdt arp muhammad nawab arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp juma mir arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp maraj alam arp fc fc uphc -- comdt. arp muhammad wazir khan arp fc fc uphc dy comdt. arp sher abbas arp fc fc sgc -- aig arp ghulamullah arp fc fc sgc sp arp abdul majeed arp fc fc uphc record not available raja shah qasim arp fc fc sgc comdt arp abdul rahim arp fc fc uphc record not available tanveer ahmed arp fc fc uphc sp gilgit iftikhar ahmed arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp barkatullah arp fc fc uphc dy comdt. arp mati ur rehman arp fc fc uphc record not available shabaz ali arp fc fc uphc record not available fida hussain arp fc fc sgc record not available sulmain ahmed haider arp fc fc uphc record not available wazir aamir ali arp fc fc uphc record not available sirajul sadiqueen arp fc fc sgc -- dy comdt. arp ghulam muhammad arp fc fc uphc -- ssp skardu rajab ali arp fc fc uphc ssp skardu muhammad askari arp fc fc uphc record not available nasir ali arp fc fc sgc sp skardu page fida hussain arp fc fc uphc sp skardu muhammad sharif arp fc fc sgc record not available imtiaz ur rehman arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp ghulam muhammad arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp abdul rashid arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp shehzad ali arp fc fc uphc record not available miraj alam (pp) arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp jahan zaib arp fc fc sgc -- aig cid saqib mir arp fc fc uphc record not available farid ul haq arp fc fc uphc -- ssp astore sajjad khan arp fc fc sgc -- sp key points iftikhar ahmed arp fc fc uphc -- aig arp muhammad amin arp fc fc sgc ssp diamer muhammad rauf shah arp fc fc uphc -- comdt arp saifullah arp fc fc uphc ssp arp zahid hussain arp fc fc sgc comdt arp abdul qayum arp fc fc uphc comdt arp muhammad akbar arp fc fc uphc record not available ali ahmed jan arp fc fc uphc record not available zia ul haq arp fc fc uphc -- dy comdt. arp dildar ahmed arp fc fc sgc -- sp gilgit jahangeer arp fc fc sgc record not available sabbir hussain arp fc fc sgc -- sp key points muhammad nabir arp fc fc uphc record not available raja shakir jahan arp fc fc uphc record not available shoukat jan arp fc fc sgc -- igp gb sajjad hussain arp fc asi sip record not available abdul rauf arp asi dsp sp igp gb abdul samad district diamer fc ip dsp .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders muhammad wakil district diamer asi sip ip .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders shah sarwar district diamer asi sip ip .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders khushal khan district diamer asi sip ip .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders abdul ghafar district diamer fc asi sip record not available igp gb (verbally) arrest of proclaimed offenders sher muhammad district diamer fc asi sip .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders mujeeb ur rehman district diamer fc asi sip .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders zafar iqbal district diamer fc hc asi .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders page abdul qahar district diamer fc hc asi .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders abdul ghafar district diamer fc hc asi .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders bashir ahmed district diamer fc hc asi .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders babar khan district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders sher baz district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer arrest of proclaimed offenders muhammad safa district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders taj alam district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders asbar khan district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders muhammad abdullah district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders sher ahmed district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders abbas khan district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders mehfooz ullah district diamer fc fc uphc .. sp diamer arrest of proclaimed offenders muhammad hussain district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders aman ullah district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders saeed aman district diamer fc fc sgc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders lal ahmed district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders farooq azam district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders muhammad riaz district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders ejaz ahmed district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders sher baboor district diamer fc fc sgc .. igp gb arrest of proclaimed offenders alimullah district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb his good performance hidayat ullah district diamer fc fc uphc .. dig diamer astore range his good performance shabir ahmed district diamer fc fc uphc .. dig diamer astore range his good performance syed nawaz sharif district diamer fc fc uphc .. dig diamer astore range his good performance rehmat hussain district diamer fc fc uphc .. dig diamer astore range his good performance shah zeb district diamer fc fc uphc .. dig diamer astore range his good performance azmat shah district diamer fc asi sip .. ssp diamer his good performance javed iqbal district diamer fc asi sip .. ssp diamer his good performance muhammad mustafa district diamer fc asi sip .. ssp diamer his good performance abdul hussain district diamer fc asi sip .. ssp diamer his good performance page muhammad marjan district diamer fc asi sip .. ssp diamer his good performance muhammad waqas district diamer fc hc asi .. ssp diamer his good performance sher muhammad district diamer fc hc asi .. ssp diamer his good performance abdul rehman district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance ali jan district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance abdul manaf district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance abdul qavi district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance wasi ullah district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance rehmat nabi district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance saqib mir district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance abdul qadeem district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance abdul haleem district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance abdul hakeem district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance shafqat ullah district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance muhammad asif district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance ehsan ullah district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance muhammad zubair district diamer fc fc uphc record not available igp gb (verbally) his good performance insar ahmed district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance shafiullah district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance muhammad arif district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance rafi ud din district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance taj muhammad district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance raza ullah district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance manzoor elahi district diamer fc fc uphc .. ssp diamer his good performance abdul rehman district diamer fc fc sgc .. ssp diamer his good performance ghulam hussain district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb his good performance jeel wali district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp special branch his good performance muhammad sakeel district diamer fc fc uphc .. sp special branch his good performance abdul sattar district diamer fc fc uphc .. sp key points his good performance nasir ullah district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp i.wing diamer his good performance faqir wali district diamer fc hc asi .. sp diamer his good performance abdul qayoom district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance manwar shah district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance mujawar khan district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance ghulam rehmat district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance qadam khan district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance sher baz district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance raj mir district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance hidayat ullah district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance page juma mir district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance muhammad ghayas district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance jahangir khan district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance abdul ghani district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance shakir ullah district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance hudood ullah district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance sher baz district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb his good performance razwan ullah district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance raja khan district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance abdul mateen district diamer fc fc uphc .. sp diamer his good performance muhammad amin district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance muhammad alam district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance riaz ahmed district diamer fc fc uphc .. sp diamer his good performance muhammad ghani district diamer fc fc uphc .. sp diamer his good performance anis ur rehman district diamer fc fc uphc .. sp diamer his good performance shams ullah district diamer fc fc sgc .. comdt arp his good performance sarmast khan district diamer fc fc uphc .. comdt arp his good performance raj alam district diamer fc fc sgc .. comdt arp his good performance ahsanullah district diamer fc fc sgc .. comdt arp his good performance abdul qadir district diamer fc fc sgc .. comdt arp his good performance rehmat wali district diamer fc fc sgc record not available record not available his good performance umar khan district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance muhammad jan district diamer fc fc sgc record not available igp gb (verbally) his good performance sher zada district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance sher afzal district diamer fc fc uphc record not available igp gb (verbally) his good performance abdul majeed district diamer fc fc sgc record not available record not available his good performance shams ullah district diamer fc fc sgc .. sp diamer his good performance muqabil shah district diamer fc fc uphc .. sp diamer his good performance kifayat ullah district diamer fc fc uphc .. sp diamer his good performance mushtaq ahmed district diamer fc fc uphc .. principal ptrc his good performance muhammad zubair district diamer fc fc uphc .. sp diamer his good performance taj muhammad district diamer fc fc uphc .. sp diamer his good performance sgc hazrat issa district diamer fc fc uphc .. aig cid his good performance inayat ullah district diamer fc fc uphc .. dig gilgit range his good performance mir ghani district diamer asi sip ip .. igp gb his good performance muhammad alam district diamer fc asi sip .. igp gb his good performance abdul bari district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb his good performance saeed ur rehman district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb his good performance aziz ur rehman district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb his good performance page altaf hussain district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb his good performance imran khan district diamer fc fc uphc .. igp gb his good performance abdul hanan district ghizer fc ip dsp -- igp gb zahid hussain district ghizer fc fc sgc -- comdt arp zahoor ud din district ghizer fc fc uphc -- sp ghizer riasat khan district ghizer fc fc uphc -- sp ghizer zaheer ud din district ghizer fc fc sgc -- comdt arp muhammad sardar district ghizer fc fc uphc -- sp ghizer niat aman shah district ghizer fc fc sgc -- sp ghizer raja nasir ud din district ghizer fc fc uphc -- dy registrar supreme court yarmast khan district ghizer fc fc uphc -- dy: comdt. arp amir hussain district ghizer fc fc uphc dy: comdt. arp afsar khan district ghizer fc fc uphc dy: comdt. arp sultan mehmood district ghizer fc fc uphc sp ghizer muhbat shah district ghizer fc fc uphc sp ghizer mehboob alam district ghizer fc fc uphc -- dig gilgit range abdullah district ghizer fc fc uphc -- dig hq sher islam district ghizer fc fc uphc -- comdt arp abdul manaf district ghizer fc fc uphc sp i. wing gilgit muhammad din district ghizer fc fc sgc -- sp ghizer shah zaib district ghizer fc fc sgc comdt arp parveen district ghizer lfc lfc l-sgc -- sp ghizer all round best at ptc during training whahid iqbal district ghizer fc fc sgc -- sp ghizer shujat ali district ghizer fc fc sgc -- comdt arp sher alam district ghizer fc fc uphc -- comdt arp islam khan district ghizer fc asi sip -- ssp ghizer jamal hussain district ghizer fc hc asi -- ssp ghizer bulbul jahan district ghizer fc hc asi -- ssp ghizer aijaz hussain district ghizer fc fc hc -- ssp ghizer riaz ahmed district ghizer fc fc hc -- ssp ghizer mashroof khan district ghizer fc fc uphc -- comdt arp ashfaq ahmad district ghizer fc fc sgc -- sp ghizer alamgir district ghizer fc fc uphc -- comdt arp khalid hussain district ghizer fc fc sgc -- sp ghizer khalid hussain district ghizer fc fc sgc -- comdt arp qurban wali district ghizer fc fc sgc -- dy comdt. arp abdul wahab district ghizer fc fc sgc -- dy comdt. arp aftab ur rehman district ghizer fc fc sgc -- sp ghizar page irfan district ghizer fc fc uphc -- sp ghizar syed shabbir hussain bln range fc fc uphc driver -- sp skardu on his good performance muhammad shabbir bln range fc fc uphc -- dig bln range on his good performance bashir ahmed bln range fc fc uphc -- dig bln range on his good performance nisar ali bln range fc fc uphc -- dy comdt. arp on his good performance yahya saleem bln range fc fc uphc driver -- sp ghanche on his good performance hassan ali kksf asi dsp sp secretary services on his good performance muhammad wali kksf fc fc uphc ssp kksf rehmat ghani kksf fc fc uphc igp gb arash khan kksf fc fc uphc igp gb shakir hussain kksf fc fc uphc -- comdt arp muhammad alam kksf fc fc uphc -- sp kp matloob hussain azim khan kksf fc fc uphc -- sp kksf sajid hussain kksf fc fc uphc syed mosa ali kksf fc fc sgc record not available matloob hussain sartaj ali kksf fc fc uphc dy: comdt. arp bursh khan kksf fc fc uphc -- dig gilgit range bakhtiyar khan kksf fc fc uphc record not available karim ali khan kksf fc fc uphc record not available riaz ud din kksf fc fc sgc -- sp ghizer muhammad raza kksf fc fc sgc record not available muhammad zia kksf fc fc uphc record not available sher jahan kksf fc fc uphc -- igp gb muhammad sabir kksf fc fc uphc -- comdt arp faqir ullah kksf fc fc uphc record not available syed aqeel hussain kksf fc fc uphc record not provided dig hq ulfat hussain kksf fc fc sgc -- sp gilgit farhad ali kksf fc fc uphc -- aig logistic shahid hussain kksf fc fc uphc record not provided dig gilgit range altaf hussain kksf fc fc sgc dy: comdt. arp zaheer ud din kksf fc fc sgc sp ghizer tahir khan kksf fc fc sgc dy: comdt. arp waheed ahmed kksf fc fc sgc -- sp gilgit ghulam qadir ptc fc asi sip -- comdt: ptc maqsood ali ptc fc asi sip comdt: ptc farhana ptc fc asi sip muhammad muslim ptc fc hc asi -- igp gb muhammad ismail ptc fc hc asi muhammad karim ptc fc hc asi page jan muhammad ptc fc hc asi zia-ud-din ptc fc hc asi ashraf hussain ptc fc hc asi jamil hussain ptc fc hc asi pakhtoon wali ptc fc hc asi muhammad usman ptc fc hc asi johar ali ptc fc hc asi igp gb maqbool -ur- rehman ptc fc hc asi bahar shah ptc fc hc asi nadir hussain ptc fc hc asi ikramullah ptc fc hc asi iftikhar hussain ptc fc hc asi sahib jan ptc fc hc asi muhammad riaz ptc fc hc asi nasir hussain ptc fc fc uphc imtiaz ahmed ptc fc fc uphc ali baig ptc fc fc uphc khalid ptc fc fc uphc tanveer ahmed ptc fc fc uphc muhammad janan ptc fc fc uphc tufail ahmed ptc fc fc uphc kaleem azad ptc fc fc uphc altaf hussain ptc fc fc uphc ajab khan ptc fc fc uphc rehmat murat ptc fc fc uphc muhammad qasim ptc fc fc uphc wajid ali ptc fc fc uphc syed imran hussain ptc fc fc uphc issa khan ptc fc fc uphc syed manzoor hussain ptc fc fc uphc abdullah khan ptc fc fc uphc sadar -ud-din ptc fc fc uphc shabbir hussain ptc fc fc uphc nazakat hussain ptc fc fc uphc hassan shah ptc fc fc uphc hussain ali ptc fc fc uphc muhammad hussain ptc fc fc uphc muhammad faqir ptc fc fc uphc ghulam nabi ptc fc fc uphc page roza aman ptc fc fc uphc walayat ali no. ptc fc fc uphc fazal karim ptc fc fc uphc piyar ali ptc fc fc uphc walayat ali no. ptc fc fc uphc rehmat ullah ptc fc fc uphc ulfat rahim ptc fc fc uphc saleem abbas ptc fc fc uphc sabir ali khan ptc fc fc uphc ahmed ali ptc fc fc uphc mir din ptc fc fc uphc abdul rashid ptc fc fc uphc shakeel ptc fc fc uphc sher ali aman ptc fc fc uphc nizam -ud-din ptc fc fc sgc hussain ali ptc fc fc sgc altaf hussain ptc fc fc sgc latif hussain ptc fc fc sgc samiullah ptc fc fc sgc arif hussain ptc fc fc sgc amir alam ptc fc fc sgc shukoorullah baig ptc fc fc sgc ali muhammad ptc fc fc sgc bilal hussain ptc fc fc sgc shahdat khan ptc fc fc sgc ahmed khan ptc fc fc sgc irfan karim ptc fc fc sgc yahya khan ptc fc fc sgc abdul rahim district ghanche asi dsp sp -- secretary services hafeez ur rehman district gilgit asi dsp sp cso to cm -- secretary services muhammad ameer district ghizer asi dsp sp april, igp gb jan muhammad district gilgit asi dsp sp cso to governer record not provided igp gb -sd- -sd- -sd- -sd- admin officer cpo registrar cpo aig establishment deputy secretary police prisons. while hearing this case, we have been fortified by the judgments delivered in an identical nature of cases by the .e. in case titled shahid pervaiz ersus ejaz page ahmed others reported as scmr whereby the larger bench of the though senior and entitled to be considered for promotion before the beneficiaries of out of turn promoti ons were bypassed as a result such out of turn promotions. each out of turn promotion necessarily had a corresponding effected officer, who suffered due to such exercise despite being completely blameless. he suffered for such no fault of his own when he was bypassed in favour of beneficia ry of such an exercise unless he voluntarily waved his rights, in which case the promotion could no longer be described as out of turn. the courts ought not to ignore his right in matters brought before it for adjudication, irrespective of his presence or absence before the court in a particular case. out of turn promotion was not only against the constitution but also against the injunctions of islam. reward or award should be encouraged for meritorious public service but should not be made basis for out of turn promotion. in others identical cases i.e. muhammad nadeem arif i.g. of police reported as scmr in case of ghulam shabbir muhammad munir abbasi reported as pld sc in a case of contempt proceedings against chief se cretary sindh reported as scmr whereby it was held that runt of out of turn promotions were always borne by the individuals officers who were bypassed. the damaging effect on the carriers of the deserving officers who page suffered due to out of tur promotion constitute during service and even after retirement in terms of pensionary benefits. if the beneficiaries of such illegal exercise were reverted to the positions to which they would have be entitled to, on their respective merits and promotions, it would immediately open up vistas of promotions for those deserving officer who were earlier bypassed due to out of turn promotions. acts of gallantry, no matter how commendable and appreciated by the society did not justify out of turn promotions as they necessarily lead to impingement of the fundamental rights of the fellow officers in terms of blocking their smooth progression of carriers and impinging their respect and honor is protected under article and of the constitution. supreme court di rected the concerned officials and authorities to fix the seniority of all the police officers who were given out of turn promotions alongwith their batch mates as if they were never given out of turn promotions. the was also of glaring example of nepotism and undue favour, which act was also opposed to oath office of the provincial chief minister. out of turn promotions of appellant on the directions of the provincial chief minister could not be sustained. page the police was a disciplined force and officials officers employed in the police should not have embarked upon unnecessary litigations claiming out of turn promotions ;, if, however, any police official had a genuine grievance he should have taken the same before the forums that the law provided instead of initiating proceedings before the high court under article of the constituti on. provincial inspector general of police had considered the judgment of the the the (or police personnel) was entitled to out of turn promotion on account of gallantry awards or otherwise. it has further declared that ante dated seniority to a civil servant is violation of the law. out of turn promotion ranging from constable page to any gazette officer shall be streamlined in terms of judgments reported as scmr scmr in case titled ch. muhammad akram registrar islamabad high court others reported as pld sc the the court has satisfied itself that the matter in hand was one that affected the public at large and involved the infringement of fundamental rights protected under the constitution, there remained no bar on its competence to entertain a petition unde article () of the constitution. in matter of public importance if it is directly and vitally concerned the general interest of the community or public at large as opposed to the particular interest of an individual. the if a case of glaring favoritism was made out resulting in malafide action, the same had to be rectified in accordance with law to avoid injustice. practice of such out of turn promotion would encourage a person to obtain any other using underhand means or otherwise and then to claim immunity for such acts which would, therefore, result in rewarding the person using such means by allowing him to page continue to njoy fruits of such ill -gotten gains which would perpetuate injustice. the the word gallantry as used in s. -a of the sindh civil servant act could only apply to police personnel and award reward on their gallantry performance should be conferred upon them and not to other species of civil servant. such award or reward, however, should be given under a transparent process after objectives assessment of their valour by a committee, in a just manner under the prescribed rules. we have heard the learned advocate general appearing on behalf of the government of gilgit -baltistan alongwith the learned secretary home and the learned dig on behalf of the inspector general of police gilgit -baltistan, perused the material on record, gone through the report(s) submitted by the police department gilgit -baltistan and the home department gilgit baltistan respectively. we have also perused the annexure -u which shows the police officers officials of police who have been promot ed without fulfilling the codal formalities of th mandatory requisite training and courses. the same is reproduced hereunder: page annexure –u. officers officials of gb police who have been promoted without fulfilling the codal farmalities of mandatory training courses s. no. name of officers officials present place of posting initial appointment present rank ramaks abdul rahim siu fc sp the officer has been promoted from fc to ip by exempting the mandatory training of lower school, intermediate upper class course by the then igp's. tehzeeb ul hassan cpo asi ip the officer has been granted out of turn promotion by exempting the mandotray training of upper class course. karimullah jan cid fc sip the individual was performing duties as driver with the then igp's and his promotion has been made without fulfilling the codal formalities of mandatory training. sher azam kksf fc hc without qualifying the mandatory training of lower school course. wazir azam kksf fc hc without qualifying the mandatory training of lower school course. maqsood ali ptc fc asi without qualifying the mandatory training of lower school intermediate class course. noor khan diamer fc hc without qualifying the mandatory training of lower school course. shoukat wali kksf fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. noor -ul-amin arp fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. ghulam dastagir ghizer fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. noor muhammad ghanche fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. ghulam abbas shigar fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. baseer abbas cid fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. muhammad khushdad gilgit fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. shahid hussain gilgit fc hc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. page gul dahoor ghizer lfc lhc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. shahina akhtar skardu lfc lhc without qualifying the mendatory training of lower school course. it is shocking to note that how and in what manners they were promoted out of turn by violating the mandatory requisite trainings and courses. it is settled principle that violation of any mandatory provisions are not condonable under any law which vitiates the whole process of such illegal and unconstitutional out of turn promotions. such promotions are inherently destructive to the rights of the officers who though enior and entitled to be considered for promotions before the above beneficiaries of out of turn promotions were bypassed and there were deprived from well deserved promotion on merits. the aforementioned case laws and parameters laid down by the we have also gone through the provisions of article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, and article () of the constitution of isla mic republic of pakistan the perusal of the aforementioned statues, case laws, and the police service rules, transpires that admittedly the officers officials of the police department gilgit -baltistan have been granted undue out of turn promotions, prom otions without fulfilling the codal formalities i.e. without obtaining the pre -requisite trainings and or promotions with out lawful authority. due to granting of the page aforesaid promotions, the batch -mates colleagues of the beneficiaries have been deprived from their due promotions seniority rights and they have been discriminated which could not be encouraged by this court. the gilgit -baltistan police is a disciplined force which has the pivotal role in maintaining the law and order situation in the ent ire region. they should always have been appreciated by providing them each and every due rights in terms of their promotions etc, so as, their moral may always be boost up beefed up. in our considered view, the notion of out of turn promotion is uncons titutional, illegal, unlawful, illegitimate and against the fundamental rights conferred under chapter –i of part- ii in the constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan, as well as enshrined in the articles to part-ii of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self -governance) order, therefore, such out of turn promotions are not tenable in the eyes of law. the promotion to the civil servants could only be granted on the basis of their seniority -cum-fitness after completing ertain legal codal formalities by the competent authorities as prescribed by the civil servants rules as well as police rules. out of turn promotions causes injustice to other colleagues batch -mate which certainly creates frustration, disappointment and disturb ance to those who are were deprived suppressed in circumstances. the officers officials of gilgit -baltistan police who performs bravery, gallantry and diligent services must be awarded rewarded with due appreciation but they cannot be granted given out of turn page promotions and or promotions without completing the requisite mandatory courses and without fulfilling the codal formalities of the prescribed services police rules by creating an environment of frustration, annoyance and sense of depravity amongs all officers officials of police on the basis of glaring favoritism, nepotism, partiality, political motives and malafidy, which is, of cour se, is considered to be illegal, unconstitutional, ab-initio void and without lawful authority. both he constitution of pakistan the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self -governance) order, provides security of person to their life and liberty. the term life and liberty is significant as it covers all the facets of human existence. the inhabitation against its deprivation extends to all those limbs and faculties by which life is enjoyed. the term life includes reputation status and all other ancillary privileges which the law confers upon the citizen. the civil servants are fully protected unde article of the constitution as well as under article (part -ii of the fundamental rights of the order, who cannot be deprived from their right of reputation, status and opportunity of the promotions in next grades scales by discriminating them a nd depriving them from their due rights. the granting of out of turn promotion, unlawful and undue promotions to the beneficiaries would not only be unconstitutional without undertaking competitive and transparent process but would also deprive the senior ity and progression of the career of other meritorious police personnel. the page out of turn promotions given by the then authorities of gilgit baltistan police does not creates a perpetual right to the beneficiaries gained on the basis of illegal order (s) which can be set aside at any time. the case in hand is a case of general pubic importance with reference to the enforcement of any of the fundamental rights as prescribed in part -ii of the order, is involved which has far reaching effects on the service rights of police officers officials of the police of gilgit -baltistan; therefore, this court was constrained to take suo moto notice in order to redress the ir grievances. in view of the above discussions and parameters laid down by the we, vide our short order, dated .., have set aside all the out of turn promotions made till date by directing the police authorities to revert all such illegal beneficiaries back to their original ranks positions posts. the learned home secretary and the inspector gener al of police gilgit -baltistan were directed to submit compliance report within two () weeks positively. as submitted by the learned dig gilgit, certain nece ssary shoulder promotions given to certain police officials purely on temporary basis in their own pay and scale were requested to be maintained, if so required, with the permission of learned inspector general of police gilgit -baltistan. the request was allowed accordingly. page in case any of the police officers and or officials of police who has have completed or being completed mandatory trainings courses or completed the requisite codal formalities before or after their out of turn promotions, the competent authority may consider their individual promotion case in accordance with law and applicable service police rules. before parting with this judgment, we appreciate and acknowledge the services rendered by -baltistan and the learned deputy inspector general of police for their proper assistance to this court. these were the reasons for our short ... chief judge. judge.