page supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan (original jurisdiction) s.m.c. no. compensation for damages caused by the over flow at hoto skardu present: c. -baltistan deputy commissioner skardu. date of hearing: -- judgment muhammad nawaz abbasi, cj: in pursuance of an application moved by effectees of village hoto pakora and hoto ranga tehsil gamba, skardu through haji muhammad rafique and another, direction was given to learned district and sessions on .. the honorable chief the honorable chief sessions undersigned directe the applicants to appear in the court. applicants stated that the administration has prepared lists of damages caused to their properties through undersigned summoned the said tehsildar also and obtained a nnexure -a, comprised of seven () pages showing detailed report of compensation with detail of damages caused to the different villagers of the two villages. petitioner expressed their dissatisfaction on annexure -a and on my directions presented annexure -b as their own estimates of compensation. undersigned have recorded joint statement of petitioner (annexure -c). recently petitioner and the acting tehsildar gamba skardu appeared in the court, on their own and jointly reported page that government administ ration has included the flood effectees of the villagers of petitioner villages with the flood effectees of qumrah skardu. qumrah skardu is a village where about persons were died in the flood diva stations. so undersigned proposes for questioning the petitioner about most recent position before passing any order on the petition because petitioner appeared a bit satisfied on their inclusion with flood effectees of village qumrah. so the petition in hand is a very simple petition. the grievances of the petitioner raised in the petition are: (i) orders be passed for payment of compensation amounts of the damages to lands and trees of the petitioner caused through soil erusion by looded water. (ii) orders be passed for construction of protective bund. (iii) international experts be arranged for estimating future damages. relief (i). the administration has been preparing estim ates of damages caused to the properties of petitioners. in their statement petitioner have stated that the damages to the petitioner properties are being caused by the flooded river almost every year and administration regularly prepares estimates of da mages, so caused by the river. but so far the administration did not pay any compensation amounts for such damages. in this connection administration is the proper forum for preparation of such estimates and courts do not have any mechanism to repare such estimates. if petitioner are not satisfied with preparation of such estimates through any particular officer or officers of the administration, petitioner are free to approach higher authorities of administration for changing such officer or officers. moreover the administration who are responsible for such preparation of estimates of such damages are the relevant persons who have the record of landed properties of petitioners, therefore are in a better position to prepare such papers. relief (ii) your honor may ask direct the administration for construction of a protective bund to save the petitioner landed properties form routine damages of flooded water of the river. anyhow, the administration of such protective bund if the same is techni cally feasible and such protective bund must not be causing damages to any other village. relief (iii) this relief appears baseless as we do not have any scarcity of experts in our country. report is submitted as desired please. dated: ... -sd- page district sessions (baltistan) in the light of the report of district sessions the deputy commissioner skardu was directed to explain the position regarding the action taken in the matters highlighted therein and deputy ommissioner submitted report in the matter as under: subject: compensation of damages caused by the over flow at hoto skardu. kindly refer to your letter no. smc -no. dated -- and -- on the above cited subject. i apologize for the delay in responding to the honorable court because the setup changed in deputy commissioner office. i recently took over as deputy commissioner, skardu due to which there is delay in submission of the report. in this connection it is submitted that the requisite information asked by the honorable court is as under: the revenue filed staff has prepared a compensation case amounting to rs. for payment to the effectees of hoto due to over flow of river during july the compensation case has been submitted to the higher authorities for necessary approval. as and when received, the compensation amount will be disbursed amongst the effectees. copy of list of effectees along with covering memo indicating actual requirements of compensation are enclosed herewith as annexure a for kind perusal. the gb works department skardu constructed some protective bund on the river but it was not fruitful due to heavy overflow of the river. the expense incurred on protective bund is re. million, which is still pending as a liability. the gb works department has prepared a pc -i for construction of protective works along the bank of river indus and submitted to the federal flood commission islamabad during the year but no scheme has since been approved by the federal flood commission. letter of chief engineer gb pwd baltistan region vide ce-ii- dated 6th december, along with its enclosures are enclosed as annexure therefore, report is submitted as desired, please. -sd- deputy commissioner, skardu the deputy commissioner appearing in court explained the position regarding payment of compensation to the effectees and stated that an estimate of rs. lac thousand has been submitted page to the competent authorities for necessary approval and that on the allocation of amount in question compensation shall be paid to the flood effectees. the deputy commissioner has also informed the court that gilgit -baltistan (pwd) and works department skardu has constructed a protective bund on river side ith the cost of rs. million but the same has not been proved much effective and department has submitted pc -i for approval of construction of a proper bund on river bank to the federal flood commission islamabad. in the light of the position explai ned by the deputy commissioner, the matter relating to the payment of compensation to the flood effectees is pending with the government of gilgit -baltistan for approval and payment will be made to effect on approval of the competent authority. the scheme of construction of proper protective band alongwith the bank of river is a project of federal flood commission and the chief secretary may take up the matter with federal flood commission for approval of the project to save the people of the area from unfo reseen loss and damage to their life and property. the commissioner skardu will peruse the matter on the instruction of chief secretary as representative of government of gilgit -baltistan with federal flood commission islamabad and inform the progress to the registrar of this court for our perusal in chamber. this application is accordingly disposed f. chief judge