page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit c. review. no. in smc. no. chief judge. judge. judge. the water and power develop ment authority (wapda) though the project director, sadpara dam project, skardu. petitioner ahlian -e-sat para skardu though their representatives: () haji muhammad raza ghulam hussain, () haji muh ammad yousaf haji qasim, () hamza ali, muham mad hussain, the provincial government of gilgit -baltistan. though the chief sectary, gilgit the deputy commissioner collector district skardu. ahliyan -e-new ranga though their representatives, () muhammad ahmad, () nadeem muhammad ali, () sher ali haj i ismail, () kacho abbas kacho muhammad ali khan, () saleem shakoor ali, () muhammad yaqoob shakoor ali, all residents of new ranga, district skardu. respondent present:- muhammad shafi sr, advocate on behalf of petitioner. muhammad issa sr. advoca te for respondent alongwith joher ali advocate. xen wapda. review petition under afticle of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, and rule xxvi of supreme appellate court rules read with section and order of c.p.c against the judgment -- passed in suo motu case no. s.m.c. by this ho norable court on the petition respondent no. whereby the petitioner has been directed to deposit the mount of compensation of land within two month for on ward payment to the efectees and the petitioner will ensure deposit of the amount in question and in case of failure by the petitioner to deposit the amount the respondent no. will pay the amount of compensation to the respondent no. and the espondent no shall proceed in the matter for recovery of amount on compensation from acqruing agency as arrears of land revenue in view of the position explained by the collector and the advocate general. for reviewing of the impuguned judgment .. of this honorable court and for setting aside the same for the ends of page dated of hearing: --. order through this petition, the .. this court has been assailed. the review pet ition is hopefully barred by time and even otherwise, the review petitioner was not a party to the proceeding in which the order impugned was passed. the application for condonation of delay has been filed but no plausible reason has been given to condone the delay of days. in the present circumstances, no ground for condonation of delay has been made out. in view of the above, the review petition is dismissed. chief