page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief smc no. show cause notice of advocates. present: muhammad iqbal advocate respondent are present in person. date of hearing: ... date of announcement of order:- ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... it has been observed that the lawyers of this court went on strike on .. on provocation and instigation of the respondent by boycotting the court proceedings which is violative to the code of conduct of the lawyers and against the ethics of legal practitioners. on .., show cause notices to the respondent i.e. the then bar leaders and the former bar leaders were issued which are reproduced as under: quote supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit original jurisdiction smc. no. to supreme appellate court, konodass gilgit. subject: show cause notice it has been observed that you are on strike october, for the reasons best known to you. as a result whereof, poor litigants are suffering a lot who have agitated against counsels for their non -appearance before this court without any cause and reason. in the opinion of this court you page are mislea ding, provoking and instigating the lawyers of this court for unlawful strike. take notice that you have prima facie not only violated violating the code of conduct of a lawyer of this court but your conduct is against the ethics of a legal practitioner. take notice that as to why your name may not be removed from the roll of advoc ate of this court as provided under rules () of order iv of the supreme appellate court (amended) rules, take notice that smc. no. is fixed for hearing before this court on .. at am, and ensure your presence on the prescribed date and time. your reply of show cause notice must be submitted in this office on or before ... dated this the 25th day of november, -sd- deputy registrar for registrar supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan, gilgit. supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit original jurisdiction smc. no. to supreme appellate court, noor colony jutial gilgit subject: show cause notice it has been observed that you are on strike october, for the reasons best known to you. as a result whereof, poor litigants are suffering a lot who have agitated against counsels for their non -appearance before this court without any cause and reason. in the opinion of this court you are misle ading, provoking and instigating the lawyers of this court for unlawful strike. take notice that you have prima facie not only violated violating the code of conduct of a lawyer of this court but your conduct is against the ethics of a legal practitioner. take notice that as to why your name may not be removed from the roll of advocate of this court as provided under rules () of order iv of the supreme appellate court (amended) rules, page take notice that smc. no. is fixed for hearing before this court on .. at am, and ensure your presence on the prescribed date and time. your reply of show cause notice has not been received so far. dated this the 4th day of december, -sd- deputy registrar for registrar supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit original jurisdiction smc. no. to supreme appellate court, khomar gilgit. subject: show cause notice it has been observed that you are on strike october, for the reasons best known to you. as a result whereof, poor litigants are suffering a lot who have agitated against counsels for their non -appearance before this court without any cause and reason. in the opinion of this court you are misleading, provoking and instigating the lawyers of this court for unlawful strike. take notice that you have prima facie not only violated violating the code of conduct of a lawyer of this court but your conduct is against the ethics of a legal practitioner. take notice that as to why your name may not be removed from the roll of advocate of this court as provided under rules () of order iv of the supreme appellate court (amended) rules, take not ice that smc. no. is fixed for hearing before this court on .. at am, and ensure your presence on the prescribed date and time. your reply of show cause notice must be submitted in this office on or before ... dated this the 25th day of november, -sd- deputy registrar for registrar supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit original jurisdiction smc. no. to page supreme appellate court, mujahid colony konodass gilgit. subject: show cause notice it has been observed that you are on strike october, for the reasons best known to you. as a result whereof, poor litigants are suffering a lot who have agitated against counsels for their non -appearance before this court without any cause and reason. in the opinion of this court you are mis leading, provoking and instigating the lawyers of this court for unlawful strike. take notice that you have prima facie not only violated violating the code of conduct of a lawyer of this court but your conduct is against the ethics of a legal practiti oner. take notice that as to why your name may not be removed from the roll of advocate of this court as provided under rules () of order iv of the supreme appellate court (amended) rules, take notice that smc. no. is fixed for hearing be fore this court on .. at am, and ensure your presence on the prescribed date and time. your reply of show cause notice must be submitted in this office on or before ... dated this the 25th day of november, -sd- deputy registrar for registrar supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit original jurisdiction smc. no. to, supre me appellate court, astore. subject: show cause notice it has been observed that you are on strike october, for the reasons best known to you. as a result whereof, poor litigants are suffering a lot who have agitated against counsels for their non -appearance before this court without any cause and reason. in the opinion of this court you are misle ading, provoking and instigating the lawyers of this court for unlawful strike. page take notice that you have prima facie not only violated violating the code of conduct of a lawyer of this court but your conduct is against the ethics of a legal practitione r. take notice that as to why your name may not be removed from the roll of advocate of this court as provided under rules () of order iv of the supreme appellate court (amended) rules, take notice that smc. no. is fixed for hearing befor this court on .. at am, and ensure your presence on the prescribed date and time. your reply of show cause notice must be submitted in this office on or before ... dated this the 25th day of november, -sd- deputy registrar for registrar supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit original jurisdiction smc. no. to supreme appellate court, amphary gilgit subject: show cause notice it has been observed that you are on strike october, for the reasons best known to you. as a result whereof, poor litigants are suffering a lot who have agitated against counsels for their non -appearance before this court without any cause and reason. in the opinion of this court you are misle ading, provoking and instigating the lawyers of this court for unlawful strike. take notice that you have prima facie not only violated violating the code of conduct of a lawyer of this court but your conduct is against the ethics of a legal practitioner. take notice that as to why your name may not be removed from the roll of advocate of this court as provided under rules () of order iv of the supreme appellate court (amended) rules, take notice that smc. no. is fixed for hearing before this court on .. at am, and ensure your presence on the prescribed date and time. your reply of show cause notice must be submitted in this office on or before ... dated this the 25th day of november, -sd- deputy registrar for registrar supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit unquote in above show cause notices they were directed to reply on or before .. but no reply was received from the said page lawyers within the stipulated period of time. consequently, the case was fixed in the court on .., after hearing the respondent this court passed the following order: since, the reply of show cause notices has not been filed by the respondent in respect of the show cause notice issued on .. issued to them, this court refer the matter to the chief judge, of this court decide the same under order iv rule () of the supreme appellate court rules, which is reproduced as under: where, on the complaint of, any person or otherwise, the chief with regard to any matter concerning the court, the chief take such disciplinary action, including suspension and removal from prac tice of the court, against him as it may deem fit. unquote. in view of the above this matter is referred to the chief the respondent may file reply of show cause notice within one () week as a last chance. in pursuance of the above order a joint reply of the show cause notices was submitted by the respondent on ... (respondent) also filed a separated reply on ... both the replies of the show cause notices are hereby reproduced as below: quote before the supreme appellate court gilgit altistan, gilgit. smc. no. page subject: show cause notice. reply to show cause notice. respectfully sheweth, the undersigned submits as under: that on the supreme appellate court bar association conveyed general body meeting on the agenda, incomplete supreme appellate court and its functioning and the general body was attended by overwhe lming majority of its members. that, the majority members of the general body of supreme appellate court bar association after detailed deliberation opined to call for complete strike of the proceedings of supreme appellate court till completion of suprem appellate court in accordance with the demands of the lawyers community (all bar associations of gb), as communicated through resolution dated 02nd june, that, it was decided that the supreme appellate court bar association will announce strike of the proceedings of supreme appellate court in condemnation of conduct of gilgit -baltistan government as well as the federal government. that, as members of the bar association the undersigned have acted in accordance with the collective decision of the bar association which is not at all misleading, provoking and instigating the lawyers. that, it has been alleged in the subject matter that the undersigned are observing unlawful strike which fact is misconceived as the strike announced by the bar assoc iation is lawful and for the cause of rule of law and dispensation of () of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, wherein it is provided that the supreme appellate court shall consist of a chie -baltistan and two other judges that, in the above view of the matter, it is seriously felt that the court is incomplete for the last about one year and despite repeated resolutions the bar associati on of gilgit -baltistan the government of gilgit baltistan as well as the federal government is paying a page deaf ear and administration of that the majority members of the bar association are of the firmed vi ew that in the existing circumstances we are not in a position to get -baltistan (empowerment self governance), order, that, it is the primary duty of being an advocate as well as of the bar to strive for the rule of law and dispensation of that, the strike in question was against the government of gilgit -baltistan as well as the federal government. that, the situation as of today has altogether changed and the strike has been recalled and has been limited to one day (monday) in a week. that the lawyers community has announced strike against the lethargic and adamant attitude of the government of gilgit -baltistan as well as the federal government. in view of the above, it is, respectfully prayed that the instant show cause notice be disposed off in view of the changed scenario to meet the ends of dated; 17th april, -sd- muhammad hussain shehzad advocate, supreme appellate court gb -sd- ehsan ali advocate supreme appellate court gb -sd- asad ullah khan adv ocate supreme appellate court gb -sd- amjad hussain advocate supreme appellate court gb page -sd- manzoor ahmed advocate supreme appellate court gb -sd- muhammad iqbal advocate supreme appel late court gb. to registrar supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. subject: reply to show cause notice. i. with reference to your notice dated reply is as under: that the supreme appellate court gb announced the strike with the reason that the government of gb has moved a summary for appointment of .as per decision of general body and cabinet of supreme appellate court bar association gb, all the lawyers of supreme appellate court bar association protest against th gb government and went to strike, as member of supreme appellate court bar association gb bonafidely for solidarity of lawyer community as per decision of legal fraternity of supreme appellate court bar association gilgit -baltistan, i become part of stri ke as lawyers of supreme appellate court bar association gb. the strike was neither against the supreme appellate court nor against the i am appearing before this i never mislead, provoke or instigate any lawyer of supreme appellate court bar association gb even any lawyers of gilgit -baltistan, this allegation is against the facts. it is requested that the show cause notic may kindly be withdrawn. dated -sd- muhammad hussain shehzad advocate, page supreme appellate court gb unquote the case was taken up on .. in chamber for hearing. the respondent stated that hey do not want to add more as a comprehensive reply of the show cause notices have already been submitted. consequently, upon hearing the respondents, the order was reserved. in their joint reply the respondent contended that they have called a lawful strike and decided to boycott the proceedings of this court as such the advocates of this court did not appear w.e.f. .. to .. in the court proceedings. according to them, the court was incomplete and in such circumstance their clients could not get justice. they felt it proper not to appear and plead their clients cases in this court accordingly. they also stated in their reply that the strike in question was legal against the attitude of the government of gilgit -baltistan and the federal government for not appointing the 3rd they further stated in the said reply that the collective decision of the bar was neither instigating nor provoking the lawyers of thi court. i have heard the respondents, gone through their reply of the show cause notices submitted by the respondent jointly and the reply of (respondent) filed individually. i have also perused rule () of order iv of the supreme appellate court rules, page the lawyers have the right (s) to protest against their genuine demands, violation of any of their fundamental rights or a matter of public importance but they cannot boycott the court proceedi ngs. the respondent have admitted that they had decided not to appear in this court as they were not expecting to get they deemed it improper to plead them before a court which is incomplete as per the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, admittedly, they did not appear in this court to proceed with the case(s) of their clients for a couple of months i.e. with ef fect from 5th october to 28th february, the respondent willfully attempted to make this court non -functional for ulterior motives. the respondent provoked and instigated the other lawyers of this court for their non -appearance in the court. prima facie, the respondent conduct was of unbecoming of advocate s. the respondent have attempted to interfere in the internal affairs of this court as well who created hurdles and tried to frustrate the proceedings of this court due to their non-appearance to conduct cases fixed in court. the poor litigants were constrained either to plead their cases themselves and or to engage other lawyers in circumstances. muhammad abbas khan advocate, -ur-rehman advocate and others lawyers were, however, appearing in this court without fail. it is also to be noted that all the lawyers of this court including the respondent were appearing after the sudden death of (late) on .. till ... they also resumed appearing with effect from 1st march till to dat in this court. in view of the above discussions in pursuance of rule order iv of the supreme appellate court rules, on prove guilty of misconduct and a conduct of unbecoming of an advocate, by instigating and provoking the lawyers of this court for their non -appearance in this court, the then vice chairman gilgit -baltistan bar council, the then president, supreme appellate court bar association and the then president, chief court bar association are removed from the oll of this court, whereas gilgit -baltistan bar council and former president, supreme appellate cour bar association on prove guilty of misconduct and a conduct of unbecoming of an advocate, their licenses are hereby suspended for five () years by debarring them to appear in this court for the said period. whereas is warned to be careful in future. the office of this court is directed to notify and imp lement this order. chief judge.