page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan (original jurisdiction) s.m.c. no. (complaint against the civil chief judge. judge. advocate general gilgit -baltistan. noor bibi. attorney and father of mst. noor bibi also present. date of hearing: --. order cj .. the report submitted by the learned addition al sessions shahzada alam advocate who represented shah riaz in the family case before the court of familyy jud ge gupis as well as in criminal case before the court of additional sessions with our permission having explained the position has stated that mst. noor bibi with her consent performed nikha with shah riaz, on -- whereupon her parents on -- got a criminal case of her abduction registered against shah riaz and others at police station yasin. therefore, the local police on -- having recovered mst. noor bibi from the custody of shah riaz handed over her to her parents and they on -- performed her nikha with deedar ali shah, whereupon shah riaz filed a suit for conjugal rights which is pending before the civil -- and later the at torney of mst. noor bibi was directed for her production before the court and upon his failure to comply with the order of court, non -bailable warrant for eh production of mst. noor bibi were issued. in consequence thereto the attorney of mst. noor bibi mo ved an application for transfer of the suit for conjugal rights from the court of civil noor bibi of transfer of family suit to any other court of competent jurisdiction. advocate appearing on behalf of mst. noor bibi submitted that along with the family suit the criminal case pending before the learned additional sessions in the interest of justice. the learned advocate general has pointed out that presently district attorney is not available at ghizer and in his absence, the criminal case may not roceed, and to avoid any complication, in the prevailing situation, both the cases may be transferred to gilgit. page in consequence to the position explained above and in view of the circumstance of the case, we deem it proper to transfer criminal case state shah riaz etc. pending in the court of additional sessions (suit for conjugal rights) pending before the noor bibi shall remain in the custody of her parents. the local police shall provide proper protection to mst. noor bibi and her parents. the s.p ghizar shall ensure that no unpleasant inc ident is taken place between the parties. the sessions the application of mst. noor bibi as well as the application of shah riaz with above di rections are disposed of. chief