page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan s.m.c.no. (pension of ex. chief advocate general gilgit -baltistan. date of hearing: -- judgment muhammad nawaz abbasi, cj: this matter relates to the grant of pensionary benefit to former chief judge, supreme appellate court, gilgit -baltistan. the former chief ehsan ullah qureshi, was appointed for a terms of three years as chairman court of appeal northern areas in september, under northern areas governance order, and at the time of appointment he wa drawing pension as a retired of (high court judges (leave, pension and privileges) order, issued under article read with fifth schedule of the constitution of pakistan. subsequently inconsequence to an amendment made in northern areas governance order, in the nomenclature of the court of appeal was changed as supreme appellate co urt, and the chairman of court of appeal was re designated as chief judge, supreme appellate court, gilgit -baltistan. the former chief the northern areas governor order was substituted by gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, wherein part xi relates to (judicat ure) of gilgit -baltistan. the former judges of supreme appellat court on the basis judgment of supreme court of pakistan in ag sindh and others m.u. ahmed ali pld sc on the question relating to the pension of the judges of high court and federal shariat court of pakistan filed a representation for gran of pension to them and government of pakistan of recommendation of incumbent chief () of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, allowed pension a nd other retirement benefits to the former judges of supreme appellate court as are admissible to the judges of supreme court of pakistan under president order no. of supreme court judges (leave, pension and privileges) order, former chief judge, supreme appellate court, gilgit baltistan also opted pension under para (ii) of president order no. of referred above and registrar of this court vide letter dated -- with the approval of chief jud ge supreme appellate court forwarded the matter to the accountant general pakistan revenue gilgit -baltistan page for necessary action and accountant general pakistan revenue, gilgit baltistan referred the case to the concerned quarter in the federal government of pakistan for guidance. however in view of the importance of the matter involving interpretation of certain provisions of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, read with constitution of pakistan, it was considered necessary to lace the matter before the court for judicial determination. the composition of supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, the qualification for appointment of chief the remuneration and other terms and condition of their service have been provided in article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order as under: gilgit -baltistan supreme appellate court.- () there shall be constituted a ilgit-baltistan supreme appellate court, referred to as the supreme appellate court to be the highest court of appeal. () subject to the provisions of this order, the supreme appellate court shall have such jurisdiction as is or may be conferred on it by this order or by under any law. () the supreme appellate court shall consist of a chief -baltistan and two other judges: () the person holding office as chief () the chief () a person shall not be appointed as the chief -baltistan un less he (a) has been a or (b) has for a period of, or for periods aggregating, not less than five years been a or (c) for a period or for periods aggregating, not less than fifteen years has been an advocate of a high court. explanation. in this sub -clause, the expression high court includes, (a) the chief court of gilgit -baltistan, or an equivalent court that existed in gilgit baltistan before the 1st day of august, and (b) a high court in pakistan including a high court that existed in pakistan at any time before the 1st day of july, () before entering upon office, the chief -baltistan shall make before the governor and any other page baltistan shall make before the chief judge, oath in the form set out in the first schedule. the chief -baltistan are appo inted for a term of three years and can be appointed for such further term as the government of pakistan may determine under sub article () of article of governance order as under: () the chief unless they sooner resign or are removed from office in accordance with law. () at any time when the office of chief -baltistan in vacant, or the chief judge, is absent or unable to perform the functions of his office due to any other cause, the next senior, -baltistan. the remuneration and other term and condition of service of chief () as admissible to the chief () the remuneration and other terms and conditions of service of the chief -baltistan supreme appellate court shall be such as are admissible to the chief the erm remuneration has been defined in article (n) of gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, as under: (n) remuneration includes salary and pension the government and (h) and (j of governance order as under: (h).government. means the government of gilgit baltistan (j).judge. in relation to the gilgit -baltistan supreme appellate or the gilgit -baltistan chief court, includ es the chief -baltistan supreme appellate court and the chief court; the chief judges and judges of supreme appellate court under article () supra have been placed at para in respect of remuneration and other terms and condition of service to the chief of (supreme court judges (leave, pension and privileges) order, promulgated under article read with fifth schedule of constitution of pakistan, which are read as under:- page fifth schedule (article remuneration and terms and conditions of service of judges the supreme cout there shall be paid to the chief per mensem, and to every other per mensem ,or such higher salary as the president may, from time to time, determine. every and to such rights in respect of leave of absence and pension, as may be determined by the president, and until so determined, to the privileges, allowances and rights to which, immediately before the commencing day, the judges of the supreme court of pakistan were ntitled. the pension payable to a retired not be less than rs. per mensem or more than rs. per mensem, depending on the length of his service as provided that the president nay, from time to time, raise the minimum or maximum amount of pension so specified: the widow of a namely: (a) if the per cent of the net pension payable to him or (b) if the per cent of the pension admissible to him at the minimum rate. the pension shall be payable to the widow life or, if she remarries, until her marriage. if the widow dies, the pension shall be payable;_ (a) to the sons of the -one years of age, until they attain the age; and (b) to the unmarried daughters of the -one years of age, until they attain that age or are married, whichever first occurs. gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, is a legal framework order for the governance of gilgit -baltistan, which is deemed to have been issued by the government of pakistan under article of the constitution of pakistan and as the status of a sub -constitutional document for gilgit -baltistan like interim page constitution of ajk act in respect of internal affairs of gilgit baltistan. the president order no. of supreme court judges (leave, pension and privileges) order, issued under article read with fifth schedule of constriction of pakistan is not directly applicable to the chief -baltistan rather it has been made applicable to them by implication under article () of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, therefore for removal of doubt, the supreme appellate court in its full court meeting held on -- decided to issue a formal notification of adoption of president order no. of and in pursuance thereof, the notification incorporating president order no. of with additional notes and explanations attached therewith has been issued as under: supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan (leave, pension and privileges) dated: -7th july, notification. no.sac.e -()(admin -) whereas, article () of the gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self -governance) order, provides that remuneration and other terms and condition of service of the chief -baltistan supreme appellate court, shall be the same as are admissible to the chief now, in pursuance of the decision taken in full court meeting of supreme appellate court hel on --, the president order no. 2of in respect of remuneration, leave, pension, privileges and allowances of judges in made pat of this notification, which shall take effect at once and shall be deemed to have taken effect accordingly with ad ditional note to some provision retrospectively. the other benefits mentioned in this notification as per decision of full court will be permissible prospectively within the allocated budget of the court, as under: presidential order no. of pat- preliminary short title and commencement: () this order may be called the supreme court judges (leave pension and privileges) order, () it shall come into force at once and paragraph shall be deemed to have taken effect on the 27th july, definitions: in this order, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context: (a) acting chief (b) acting (c) actual service means the time spent by a or at the equest of the president, and includes vacations; (d) chief (e) high court means the high court of a province and shall include a high court which existed in pakistan at any time before the commen cement of the constitution, page (f) an acting chief (g) (h) serving as (i) service for pension means actual service and includes thir ty days of the amount actually taken, whichever is less of each period of lea ve on full allowance; (j) supreme court means the supreme court of pakistan and shall include the supreme court which existed in pakistan at any time: and (k) vacation means a vacation fixed by or under the rules of the supreme court. note: the xpressions chief may be read as chief part -ii leave kinds of leave: -() subject to the provisions of this order, leave granted to a at this option, be either: (a) leave on full salary; or (b) leave on half salary; or (c) leave partly on full salary and partly on half salary. () for the purpose of this part, any period of leave on full salary, shall be reckoned as double that period of le ave on half salary. leave account: a leave account shall be kept for each (i) credited to him in two separate columns (a) a perio equal to one -forth of actual service: and (b) where any duties are assigned to a for reasons of such assignment, the in addition to the leave credited under the preceding sub -clause, a further period equal to double the period by which the vacation availed of by him falls short of thirty day; and (ii) debited to him the period of all leave on full for half salary granted to him: provided that the opening credit at the commencement of this order shall not exceed six months in the case of any judge. aggregate amount of leave: () the aggregate amount of leave granted to a in terms of leave on half salary, thirty six months. () this aggregate amount of leave on full salary granted to a but the leave credited to a -clause (b) of clause (i) of paragraph shall not be subject to the limit herein specified. () the period of leave granted at any one time shall not exceed, in title case of leave on full salary six months and, in the case of leave of any other kind specified in paragraph sixteen months. grant of leave not due: subject to the maximum limit specified in sub -paragraph () of paragraph leave on half salary may be granted to a page (a) on a medical certificate: and (b) for a period not exceeding sixth months and not more than once during the whole period of his service as judge, otherwise than on medical certificate. leave salary. () the monthly rate of leave salary payable to a () the monthly rate of leave salary payable to a jud ge while on leave on half salary shall be equal to half the monthly rate of his salary. () a shall not be entitled to draw his leave salary, otherwise than in pakistan rupees unless he, immediately bef ore such appointment, was entitled, in the service of pakistan to draw leave salary in foreign exchange in which case he may draw leave salary in foreign exchange on the same terms and conditions as were applicable to him as pension in the service of pakis tan. () a extraordinary leave. () a at the time of retirement, three hundred and sixty five days leave on full salary to his credit, shall be paid six months salary in lieu of leave not availed of. extraordinary leave. () leave in excess of any leave admissible under the foregoing provisions of this order may be granted to a () no leave under subparagraph () shall be granted to a () no leave salary shall be payable to -paragraph () combining leave with vacation: a provided that no such permission shall be granted to a overstaying leave or vacation: if a whether combined with leave or not, he shall receive no salary for the period of his absence in excess of the leave granted to him or beyond the end of the vaca tion, as the case may be: provided that, if such absence is due to circumstances beyond his control, the period thereof may be treated as leave admissible to him. abeyance of acting appointments in vacation: nothing in this order shall be construed as authorized any action chief special disability leave: special disability leave may be granted to a or in consequence of, the due performance of his official duties or in consequence of his official position and the provisions of fundamental rule shall, so far as may be, apply to a authority competent to grant leave: the authority competent to grant or refuse leave, or to revoke or curtail lea already granted, shall, in the case of the chief justice, be the president and, in the case of other judges, he chief -ii pension entitlement: a on his retirement, resignation or removal, be paid a pension in accordance with the provisions of this order if he has: (a) attained the retiring age: and (b) completed not less than te years, service as service for pension and, before attaining the retiring age, resigned, his resignation have been medically certified to be necessitated by ill health or been removed for physical or mental in capacity. payable pension: () subject to sub -paragraph () the chief or as the case may be, a -five percent of the said salary: provided that for the period for the period between twenty seventh day of july, and the thirty -first day of may, the minimum arid judges of superior court order, (p.o. of ). explanation:- the expression salary means the salary referred to in paragraph of the fifth schedule to the constitution of the islamic republic of pakistan or such high salary as the president may determine from time to time and shall include a superior judicial allowance but shall not include any other allowance or amount representing any privilege of facility. () if a chief -paragraph () if he would have retired on the day he was appointed in the supreme court he would have the option to receive pension either under sub paragraph or of the high court. 16a.pension on re -employment etc. () where a retired or is holding, a post in connection by the federal government or a provincial government, he shall be entitled to re ceive full pension in addition to pay, allowances and privileges of the post on which he is re -employed in accordance with the rules applicable on re -employment to retired civil servants () where a (a) is appointed to act an arbitrator by the federal government or a provincial government or a commission of inquiry; or (b) is required by such government to gave a legal opinion in any matter, he shall not receive any fee or compensation for so acting or tend ering legal opinion except reimbursement of out of pocket expenses. () nothing contained in subparagraph () and () shall apply to a leave, pension and privileges) (amendment) order, and opts not to have his pension increased as a consequence of the increase in salaries provided thereby commutation of pension. () subject to paragraph () and () the civil pension commutation rules shall, with necessary modifications, apply to a judge. () where the pension of a he shall not be entitled to have the differential of the pension payab le to him at the time of is retirement and the subsequent increase in pension commuted. () a the a mount of commutation so paid page shall be deducted from the amount of commutation arrived at under sub-paragraph () extraordinary pension. the central civil services (extraordinary pension) rules shall apply to a judge, who may suffer injury or die as a result of violence as they to an officer of the federal government subject to the modification that reference in those rules to tables relating to injury gratuities and pensions and family gratuities and pensions, shall be construed as reference to the orresponding tables in the schedule to this order. subsidiary condition of service. subject to the provisions of this order and such other provisions as the president may make in this behalf, other privileges and rights of a provided that nothing in this paragraph shall have effect so as to give to a his service as official residence. () without payment of rent, to the use of a residence th roughout his term of office and for a period of thirty days thereafter and no charge shall fall on him personally in respect its maintenance. () where a he shall be entitled to be paid a monthly allowance of sixty eight thousand rupees and his resident shall also be, maintained as government expense. explanation. in this paragraph (a) maintenance in relation to a residence includes the payment of local rates and taxes and the provision of electricity, gas and water; and (b) residence includes the staff quarters and other building appurtenant to, and the gardens of the resid ence. note: official residence means a house provided by the government either owned by the government or hired rented engaged for residence of without any charge in respect of rent and maintenance. if a with maintenance at government expenses a temporary residence -cum-office. if the official residence of the chief is located at a place other than islamabad, he shall be entitled, without payment of rent, to the use of a designated house, i.e. the chief as a temporary residence -cum-office and no charge shall fall on him personally in res pect of its maintenance. note: if the residence of chief he shall be entitled to the use of temporary residence without any charge in respect of maintainace at gilgit. official car. () a but shall have to bear the cost of petrol used in the car during a month in excess of six hundred liters. () a car provided for the use of a subject to its replacement earlier, either because of its having competed the specified number of years of service or distance to be covered or of its having become unserviceable in accordance with rules. note (a): the chief -baltistan may use the official car as family car and in addition may also use a vehicle from pool put will bear cost of petrol beyond his entitlement of liters per month except while on official duty at a place other than gilgit, he will get liters petrol per day. page note (b): a chief (corrigendum dated --) is entitled purchase a car vehicle in his use or(corrigend um dated -- from pool of the court in terms of the instructions contained in letter dated -- of ministry of low parliamentary affairs government of pakistan on the subject on the basis of book value. note (b) is prospective superi or judicial allowance. a a superior judicial allowance amounting to fifty thousand rupees. explanation: for the purpose of this paragraph exemption from income tax. no income tax shall be payable in respect of the allowance admissible to a facilities to retired judges. () a and after his death, his widow, shall be entitled to the following benefits and perquisites at government expense, namely: a) the service of a driver and orderly; b) (three thousand) free local telephone call per month; c) units of electricity as well as hm of gas per month and free supply of water; and d) liters of petrol per month. la) if during service a his widow shall also be entitled to the benefits and perquisites provided in sub -paragraph () () no income tax shall be payable in respect of benefits and perquisites to which a as the case may be, is entitled under this paragraph. () a -paragraph () shall undertake to perform the work of arbitrat ion involving government interest if assigned to him without charging any fee. note: (a) a (c) local calls and units of electricity is entitlement of a ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- other benefits permissible in pursuance of the decision of full court within the allocated budgetof the corut. notwithstanding the privileges contained in p.o.no. of a chief -baltistan on completion of tenure will be authorized to engage the services of personal assistant bps and a contingent employee bps of his choice within the allocated budget of the court. medical facilities and additional privileges. a former or a serving jud ge of supreme appellate court is entitled to free medical treatment in terms of para of presidential order no. of note: gilgit -baltistan is hard area and medical facilities as in the down country are not available, therefore, if medical treatment required to the he may avail the medical facility in government hospitals or in recognized private hospitals in down country, on recommendation of authorized medical officer, within the al located budget. the staff of supreme court will also be entitled medical facility in the above manner. the travailing and daily allowances and other traveling facilities as are admissible to the (traveling allowance), rules, page the registrar of the court on expiry of tenure is authorized to engage the services of contingent employee bps of his choice. (the other benefits authorized within allocated budget of court will take effect fr om the date of this notification) the plain reading of article () of gilgit -baltistan governance order would show that president order no. of (supreme court of pakistan judges) (leave, pension, pay and privilege) order of has been ade applicable to the judges of supreme appellate court in respect of the remuneration and other terms and conditions of service without effecting their right of additional benefits and privileges in pursuance of the decision of court as mentioned in the a bove notification or under any other law within the allocated budget of the court. notwithstanding the appointment of the chief under article () of governance order they would be entitled to the pension and other retirement facilities benefits in terms of para to read with para of president order no. of supreme court judges (leave, pension, and privileges order, in accordance with the judgment of supreme court of pakistan in accountant general sindh others m.u. ahmed ali, pld page wherein it was held as under: the matter relating to, the grant of pension to the retired judges of high courts irrespective of their length of service as such judge, at one stage was seriously considered by the federal government but it could not be materialized for the reason of departmental interpretation of fifth schedule that a retired was not entitled to the pensionary benefits whereas the plain reading of paragraph in the fifth schedule, referred to above, would show that every as may be determined by the president. this paragraph further provides that until such rights and privileges are so determined, a there is no ambiguity in paragraphs and of fifth schedule because paragraph provides for a minimum and a maximum pension payable to a judg of a high court who has not put in less than five years of service as such in short paragraph identifies a particular class of judges, with reference to the length of service and nothing an be spelt out that paragraph has no independent implication with reference to every it is thus clear that the classification of judges was made with reference to their length of service for the purpose of determination of their ension at different rates mentioned therein and not for the purpose of determination of their right of pension is recognized under article of the constitution. conclusion: before parting with this judgment, we deem it proper to point out that chief the appointment of the chief -c of the constitution and the page terms and condition of service of the judges of the said court are also determined by the president, therefore, notwithstanding the fixed tenure of the chief they are entitled to the terms and conditions of service and remunerations including pension and pensionary benefits at par to the by virtue of article -c99) of the constitution which provides as under: there can be no exception to the right of pension and other retirement benefits of the chief recognized under gilgit -baltistan governance order but the real question requiring determination would be whether the appointment of a former baltistan is re -employment in service of pakistan or it is an independent assignment in service of gilgit -baltistan. the service of gilgit -baltistan has been defined in article (o) of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, as under: (o) service of gilgit -baltistan means any service, post or office in connection with the affairs of gilgit baltistan including the council, but does not include service as chairman of the council, governor, speaker deputy speaker, chief minis ter, minister, federal minister in -charge of the council secretariat or advisor, parliamentary secretary, advisor to the minister or member of assembly or member of the council the service of pakistan has been defined in article of constitution of pak istan as under: service of pakistan means any service, post or office in connection with the affairs of the federation or of a province, and includes an all pakistan service, service in the armed forces and any other service declared to be a service of pakistan by or under act of majlis -e-shoora (parliament) or of a provincial assembly, but does not include service as speaker, deputy speaker, chairman, deputy chairman, prime minister, federal minister, minister of state, chief minister, provincial min ister, attorney general, advocate general, parliamentary secretary or chairman or member of a law commission, chairman or member of the council of islamic ideology, special assistant to the prime minister, adviser to the prime minister, special assist ant to a chief minister, adviser to chief minister or member of a house or a provincial assembly; it is clear for the definition of service of gilgit -baltistan and service of pakistan that two services are entirely independent and judges of supreme a ppellate court while discharging function in connection with affairs of gilgit -baltistan. the expenditure on their pay and pension and other privileges are met from consolidated fund of government of gilgit -baltistan, established page under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, as under: gilgit -baltistan consolidated fund. () all revenues by the government, all loans raised by the government with the approval of government of pakistan and all moneys received by it in payment of any loan shall form a part of consolidated fund, to be known as the gilgit -baltistan consolidated fund. () all other moneys (a) received by or on behalf of the government or (b) received by or deposited with any other court established under the authority of the government, shall be credited to the public account of the government. () the custody of the gilgit -baltistan consolidated fund, the payment of money into that fund, the withdrawal of money therefrom, the custody of other moneys received by or on behalf of the government, their payment into, and withdrawal from the public account of the gov ernment, and all matters connected with or ancillary to the matters aforesaid, shall be regulated by the act of the assembly or, until provision in that behalf is so made, by rules made by the governor. whereas the expenditure in respect of remuneration an other term and condition and privileges of the :- federal con solidated fund and public account. () all revenues received by the federal government, all loans raised by that government, and all moneys received by it in repayment of any loan, shall form part of a consolidated fund, to be known as the federal consoli dated fund. () all other moneys (a) received by or on behalf of the federal government; or (b) received by or deposited with the supreme court or any other court established under the authority of the federation; shall be credited to the public account the federation. the territory of gilgit -baltistan notwithstanding a sovereign part of pakistan, and not an independent dominion has been governed by different governance models since liberation and gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, presently enforced to govern gilgit -baltistan has been promulgated by the government of pakistan with the following official version. gilgit-baltistan (empowerment and self governance) oder, preface this edition if published officially and is an authentic version of the gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) oder, gilgit -baltistan (northern areas) comprising gilgit and baltistan region, after its liberation from the dogra rule in have been governed under various governance models. the first noticeable administrative page improvement came through the northern areas legal framework order, wherein major administrative, judicial and political reforms were introduced. to ensure more internal autonomy further democratization was done through the northern areas legal framework order, the elected representatives of the people were thus taken closer to a democratic and just system. amendments to the order of were also made in and the present democratic government nanking on the efforts started in and further in decided to consolidate he democratic process further and to bring the area at par with the provinces of pakistan. the prime minister of pakistan was therefore, pleased to constitute a high powered committee to evolve a system of governance under the maximum devolution of powers could be ensured but keeping in view the special status of the area and the international commitments of the government of pakistan. the ka gb division prepared a draft gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, on the above policy pa rameters. the draft was improve the document. finally, the order was vetted by the law and islamabad and presented to the federal cabinet before soliciting the approval of the president of pakistan. it may be mentioned that the provisio of gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, contain major improvement over all past efforts and may rightly be added as one of the major achievements of the present government. muhammad ihtesham khan secretary ministry of kashmir affairs and gigit -baltistan. the careful examination of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, read with constitution of pakistan, it is clear that service of gilgit -baltistan is entirely independent to the service of pakistan and gilgit -baltistan also has complete internal independence in its all affairs. the special territory of gi lgit-baltistan having been not as such defined in the constitution of pakistan is not governed by the constitution of pakistan rather it be ing sovereign part of pakistan has always been governed by a separate legal frame work order. the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan has been established under northern areas governance order as highest judicial authority in gilgit -baltistan wit the status at par to the supreme court of pakistan in the territory of gilgit -baltistan. the matters relating to the appointment of judges of supreme appellate court and their terms and condition of service are governed by gilgit baltistan (empoerment an self governance) order, and page their status in service of gilgit -baltistan is same as the chief the expenditure in respect of their pay, perks and other privileges including pension and retirement facili ties are met from the consolidated fund of government of gilgit -baltistan in the same manner as the expenditure in respect of the pay, pension and other privileges including retirement benefits and facilities of chief the two service have no nexus with each other, therefore, the appointment of a former -employment in ser vice of pakistan or appointment in service of gilgit -baltistan in continuation of service of pakistan, rather it is an independent appointment with independent right of service and consequently, a former -baltistan on retirement as chief the appointment of chief -c of the constitution of pakistan for fixed term and similarly appointment of an adhoc as in the case of judges of supreme appellate court under article () of gilgit -baltistan governance order therefore, tenure appointment of judges of supreme appellate court is not in conflict to any provision of constitution of pakistan or any law and consequently, a chief -baltistan, notwithstanding appointed for a term of three years on reti rement in his own independent right would be entitled to pension and other retirement facilities. the net result of the above discussion is that service of pakistan and the service of gilgit -baltistan are two independent services and appointment of a perso in service of gilgit -baltistan. -baltistan in the service of gilgit -baltistan, there fore, he was not re -employed in service of pakistan, rather his appointment in service of gilgit -baltistan was quite independent to the service of pakistan and without prejudice to the right of pension etc. earned page by him in service of pakistan as he would be entitled to the pension and other privileges in his independent right as chief -baltistan. the appointment of the chief baltistan who is prime minister of pakistan under gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) oder, and subject to laws of pakistan made applicable in gilgit -baltistan. the government of gilgit -baltistan and its all institutions are functioning independently under the legal frame work order i.e. gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, the service of gilgit -baltistan also has entirely a separate structure and status therefore, the appointment of a person in service gilgit -baltistan after retirement from service of pakistan not re -employment or continuation of service of pakistan and consequently the rights earned by a person in service on pakistan and also neither the rights in two services can be amalgamated with each other nor merged in service of pakistan by mere reason of administrative control of prime minister of pakistan as chairman or council of gilgit -baltistan. para -a of president order no. of supreme court judges (leave, pension and rivileges) order, provides that where a retired he shall be entitled to receive full pension in addition to pay, allowances and privileges of the post on which he is reemployed in accordance with the rules applicable on reemployment to retired civil servants. the expression federal or provincial government used in para -a above means federal government of pakistan and provincial gover nment of a province established under the constitution of pakistan and a the gove rnment of gilgit -baltistan is not provincial government established under the constitution of pakistan therefore the appointment of retired baltistan is not a re -employment in terms of para -a of president order no. of rather it is an appointment in service of gilgit -baltistan is not a post in connection with the affairs of federal government or provincial government of a province of pakistan, therefore, a retired jud ge of high court or page supreme appellate court of pakistan on appointment in service of gilgit -baltistan would be entitled to all service benefit of post held by him in the service of gilgit -baltistan under gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) rder, independent to his right of pension and other retirement facilities in the service of pakistan. the president order no. of (supreme court judges (leave, pension and privileges) order, is special law having overriding effect on the ge neral law of pension applicable to the person in service of pakistan and this special law has been made applicable to the judges of supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan by virtue of article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, therefore, in absence of specific provision in the above special law or in gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, to the effect that appointment of a retired -baltistan will be treated reemployment in service of pakistan, or a post in connection with the affairs of federation, he cannot be denied or deprived of the right of pension and other retirement benefits attached with the of fice of -baltistan. the right of pension and other retirement benefits of the judges of supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan is recognized under article () of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, which is self -explanatory and self executor provision in the governance order and in absence of any provision to the contrary or in conflict to the governance order or in the constitution of pakistan or in any law of pakistan enfor ced in gilgit -baltistan, the interpretation of article () of gilgit baltista governance order in a different manner may redundant the same and result in conflict of laws. the right of pension of a -baltista with other privileges has been. acknowledged under article () of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, without any exception and consequently, former chief -baltistan would be entitled to the pension and other retirement benefits admissible to the judges of supreme appellate court president order no. of by virtue of article () of gilgit -baltistan governance order, in his independent righ t. the representative of agpr gilgit informed that court that the representation of of by virtue of article () of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, in the light of foregoing discussion and conclusion, we hold that the appointment of a retired -baltistan is not reemployment in service of pakistan or in continuation of service of pakistan, rather his appointment is in the service of gilgit -baltistan and on retirement form supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, such () of gilgit -baltistan governance order, and shall also be entitled to the additional facilities in terms of the notification of adoption of president order no. of issued by the court rep roduced in pare of this judgment and under any other law within the allocated budget of court. the matter relating to the right of pension and pensionary benefit of the former chief -baltista is accordingly disposed off. chief