page supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan (original jurisdiction) s.m.c. no. clean drinking water, gilgit present: c.. -baltistan, sdo, wasa, gilgit -baltistan. date of hearing: -- judgment muhammad nawaz abbasi, cj: in pursuance of the complaint of the public in general published in the newspapers that because of non availability of clean drinking water in gilgit city, majority of the population is victim of various serious diseases, this court in exercise power under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, having taken cognizance of the matter issued notice to the concerned authorities vide .. as under: this is general complaint that drinking wa ter in gilgit is full of pollution. the water of natural nullas and river is stored in water tanks and supplied to the people in raw form without filtration, and consequently the people have the complaint of serious diseases like hepatitis, kidney failure, gastroentitis and cancer in gilgit and other parts of northern areas. it is reported in daily sada -e-gilgit dated 26th august that the residents of sonikot are being directly supplied drinking water from the river without filtration and the people having no option are compelled to drink the polluted river water, which is not only injurious to general health but also is the cause of serious diseases. the news paper clipping is attached herewith. the clean drinking water is the natural right of every person and being essential for life, is an integral part of fundamental rights of life, as envisaged under article of the constitution read with the governance order therefore, this is constitutional duty of the government to provide clean drinking water to the citizen to maintain the health standard. the superintendent engineer (wasa) will submit report and will also appear in person on 1st september, before the court to explain the standard of drinking water being supplied to the people. the secretary health will submit report with detail of patients of hapatitis, kidney failure, gastroentitis and cancer in gilgit and overall northern areas. the director health gilgit page will appear for assistance of the court on 1st september, in continuation of the proceedings, the court on various dates passed orders as under: -- the report submitted by director health northern areas reveals that there are patients of gastroentertitis and of hepatitis in gilgit distr ict, whereas are cancer patients and are of renal diseases. the total patients of the above diseases in district gilgit, skardu, ghizer, chanche and astore are about the director health has informed the court that main cause of all these di seases is the non availability of clean drinking water and with reference to the system of water supply in gilgit city pointed out that water is supplied to the people from kargah and jutial nallas without proper filtration which is much below to the norma health standard what to speak of health standard of who. he stated that due to the pollution the water of these nallas is not safe for human consumption and that lifting of river water to the reservoir tank for supply as drinking water without filtration is dangerous from health point of view and is injurious to life. the superintendent engineer (wasa) the natural water of these nallas is stored in water tanks and after the primary treatment i.e. (sedimentation and chlorination) is supplied to the people in the gilgit city. the sonikot area is supplied the river water by lifting thro ugh pumps from the depth of to feet and this water due to natural filtration is safe for drinking. superintending engineer present in court states that on the basis of laboratory test reports the water of above referred source was found satisfactory and that water purification plants are also installed in gilgit district out of which are functioning and only two are non -functional. the learned advocate general has supported the report submitted on behalf of wasa without contradicting the positi on explained by the director health regarding the large number of patients of diseases referred above being caused due to polluted drinking water. the learned advocate general becoming sentimental argued that his family uses same drinking water and by gra ce of god no member of the family is suffering from any disease. the complaint of the people published in the news paper is baseless and department reserves right of legal action against the newspaper. senior advocate, president supreme appellate court bar association and advocate have stated that the report of wasa is baseless page which is evident from the report of director health, wherein it has been shown that number of patients of different diseases in gilgit and northern areas are suffering with these diseases due to the drinking of polluted water and that water purification plants installed at different places in gilgit are not functional. they stated that even if these water plants are made functional can only feed of population of gilgit and major population of the city would still be deprived of filtered drinking water. senior advocate has also pointed out that the drainage water is mixed with natural wter of nallas and people use this water for no alternate arrangements. advocate at this stage pointed that the chief executive inspec tion team on asking of chief secretary n.a prepared a report on the subject and according to this report most of filtration plants are not functional and water is being supplied to the people without filtration. the advocate general will collect the rep ort in question from the concerned quarter and place the same on record before the next date. in the light of factual position contained in the report submitted by the health secretary and the matter explained by director health in the court, we are not atisfied with the report submitted by the superintending engineer wasa or with the explanation of learned advocate general that supply lof clean drinking water in gilgit and whole of northern areas is being made as per normal health standard. this is a matter of common sense that unless a proper treatment plant for filtration and purification of water at natural sour is installed, the primary treatment of water with sedimentation and chlorination is not sufficient and is not at all safe for dri nking. this water certainly causes serious diseases as mentioned in the report of health secretary. the arrangement of sedimentation and chlorination for drinking water is second stage after supply of filtered water as a safety measure before use. the supe rintending engineer has not been able to justify non installmentation water treatment plants at kargah and jutial nalla, and also that raw water lifted from depth of to feet from the river can be treated clean drinking water and is not injurious to ealth. page in view of the position explained above we direct to the director health, for collecting samples of water being supplied from kargah and jutial nallas and also the water being lifted through pumps from river gilgit, for the laboratory tests from health services laboratory aga kahn (wasip). the test report shall be submitted to this court with in a fortnight. the inspection team of chief executive will hold an inquiry into the water supply system and the standard of drinki ng water in the light of report of superintending engineer (wasa) and the report of health secretary, will submit its report to this court within two weeks. the superintending engineer (wasa) in his report has pointed out lthat due to limited financial so urce the clean drinking water as per required standard is not being supplied and if sufficient funds are provided to wasa, the clean drinking water as per required health standard will definitely be supplied to the people of northern areas. the clean drin king water is basic necessity of life and part of fundamental right of life in terms of article of constitution of pakistan read with governance order therefore this is constitutional duty of the government to provide clean drinking water to the cit izens to improve their standard of health and save them from serious diseases which are result of polluted drinking water. the chief secretary will submit report regarding the scheme fo the installation of water treatment plants at main source of water i.e. kargah and jutial nalla and the budget allocation to wasa in this behalf. the report should reach to the court before the next date. we appreciate the assistance of senior advocate and president supreme appellate court bar association, advocate and ahsan ali, advocate in this matter of public interest. they will render assistance in the matter as amicus curie. adjourned to --. -- the reports of pbsp of the samples of water taken from kargah and jutial nala reveal that water being supplied to soni kot by lifting from underneath river falls in category a and is fit for human consumption whereas water of jutial nala and argah is of category and and containing bacteria is page not fit for human consumption. the learned advocate general has also submitted a report prepared by cmh laboratory gilgit in respect of water of kargah nala, jutial nala, alsabah zulfiqarabad,soni kot and musa mohallah in which the opinion expressed is satisfactory this report on the face of it is not to the required standard as contents of the water in respect of bacteria and other elements have not been explained. it is also not known whether the water of these nalas is fit for human consumption or not. learned advocate general in view thereof has submitted that environment department has its own testing laboratory and it would be more appropriate if the samples are sent to this laboratory for report. be that as it may director environmen present in court is directed to get samples of the water from different natural sources being supplied in gilgit city and surrounding areas for laboratory tests from the laboratory of environment agency and submit report on the next date. the learned ad vocate general states that the matter relating to the financial grant to the wasa for installment of treatment plant at natural sources of water i.e. karga and jutial nala could not be taken up with chief secretary and further time may be granted for the eedful to be done in view thereof the case is adjourned to a date in the second week of october. -- the advocate general states that the matter relating to the financial grant to wasa for installment of treatment plant at natural sour ce of water was to be taken up with chief secretary gilgit -baltistan but due to no availability of chief secretary the matter could not be taken up with him. is absent without any intimate. the advocate general is directed to submit the report regarding financial grant for installation of treatment plant on the next date and to ensure the attendance of assistant director environment department as well. the advocate general states that superintendent engineer phe (wasa) is not in a position to properly appraise the court about the matter. he suggested that xen, phe (wasa) may be directed to attend the court for proper assistance. the office is directed to notice executive engineer public health (wasa) for attendance on the next date. baltistan and assistant dirctor wasa along with .e.e. on behalf of superintendent engineer present. case adjourned to a date to be fixed by the office. -- the xen wasa (phe) states that due to the shortage of funds the installment of the treatment plant is withheld and that the department has not prepared proposal for establishment of treatment plant for approval of the chief secretary. the report called from the chief secretary for allocation of funds and estab lishment of treatment plant at main source of water i.e. karga and jutial nala has not been sent. the matter relates to the basic necessity of life as there is no justification of supply of contaminated water to the citizens as a result of which as per re port of health department, a large number of persons in gilgit are patients of serious diseases. the secretary works will prepare the feasibility report and initiate the process for approval of the installment of treatment plant and the chief secretary may in the light of feasibility report with the proposal for establishment of treatment plant on the main source of drinking water i.e. karga and jutial nala approve the scheme for inclusion in the annual development program in the current financial year. the director environment at this stage pointed out that in case of delay in establishment of treatment plant, the alternate arrangements for supply of clean drinking water can be made and in view thereof the director environment will assist the secretary orks in preparation of feasibility report. the director environment with reference to the water quality survey report submitted that immediate steps are required to be taken for supply of clean drinking water in the light of recommendations made by the inspection team. the report at page is reproduced as under: in this connection the team has conducted water quality survey of gilgit city and danyore from september to october and collected samples, which were tested. out of that only four samples collected from danyor are bacteriologically contaminated and turbid, hence no fit for human consumption. ten samples of al -saba lift water system were tested out of which two were turbid beyond the standard limit, the sample from taken fr om wahdat colony jutial lift system was heavily turbid at sources and hose tape. the chairman of inspection team (cit) gilgit baltistan has pointed out in report that water of water supply scheme of jutial, barmas and alsaba has been found contaminated ith page bacteria whereas the water of water supply denyore is not fit for human consumption. the inspection team has recommended the solution of the problem as mentioned at page of the report as under: short term: water sanitation authority may ensure regular maintenance of purification plants as per who standards and guidelines so as to provide safe clean drinking water to the user community. water sources may be properly protected to avoid penetration of uman, animal and agriculture residues in to water bodies so as to minimize bacteriological contamination. work on the development project improvement of water tank at barmas and jutial may be resumed through the same contractors immediately to comple te it without further loss of time. necessary budget required would be arranged to liquidate the liabilities of the contractors. gb-epa may periodically monitor water sources and purification plants to ensure quality of water fit for human con sumption. in the short run phe department should fence the tanks, install mesh in the incoming section of water supply system of jutial upper complex and ensure sedimentation and chlorination of water before supply. the director environment submitted that in the light of these recommendations arrangement is made the problem in the supply of purified and clean drinking water will be solved. in view thereof we direct that the secretary works will immediately take necess ary steps in the light of recommendations for supply of clean drinking water on the basis of short terms. the secretary works will also initiate process for long term arrangement as suggested in the recommendations of inspection team referred above for approval of the chief secretary and submit compliance report to the registrar of this court for our perusal in chamber within a month. sr. advocate and president supreme appellate court bar association has pointed out that pipe line in the water supply danyore was required to be replaced for which budget was also allocated but it is stated that contractor in connivance with field staff without replacing the pipe lines with new pipe lines exhausted the budget and although an inquiry was held in the matter and recovery was also made from contractor but the pipe lines has not so far page been replaced. the sdo wasa (phe) present in court states that the work of replacement of the pipe lines in danyore water supply as per requirement is in progress and will be completed by the end of december the xen wasa (phe) will immediately make arrangement of sodimentation and chlorination of the water. sdo as well as xen will submit compliance report to the registrar of this court within a week. the xen wasa (phe) has stated that at the first instance the following actions are required to be taken on priority for supply of clean and purified drinking water. construction of the number water filtration complex at jutial, konodas and barmas through craft system including construction of storage tanks having capacity of lac gallons each to meet the basic requirement of the everyday use. allocation of prope funds for maintenance of number purification plants and number water pumps at various locations. scheme for the replacement of g1 pipe with hdp pipe at nagral, dumyal and kashrote areas. ban to use water hand pumps in nagaral and kashrote a reas. laying of sewerage scheme for nagral, magni mohalla, damyal and kashrote area for the disposal of proper sewerage including two number treatment plants before the disposal of waste of sewerage in gilgit. establishment of test laboratory with wasa (phe) division. in the light of the laboratory test, the recommendations of chairman inspection team cit gilgit baltistan and the suggestions of the director environment and xen wasa (phe), we direct that the secretary works in consultation with the director environment, xen wasa (phe), engineer inspection team and a representative of planning department will prepare the feasibility report within a fortnight and will submit it to the chief secretary for approva of the scheme for supply of purified water of the standard of human consumption. the case shall be relisted after winter vacation and the officials present in court will remain in attendance to apprise the court on the progress. -- vide --, it was directed for preparation and submission of feasibility report for approval of page the chief secretary in connection with the scheme for supply of clean drinking water of the standard of human consumption on the basis of the laboratory tests and recommendations of chairman inspection team (cit), gilgit baltistan and also suggestions given by the director environment department and xen wasa. the learned advocate general states that neither any officer from the dep artment is in attendance nor he has been given instructions regarding the progress in the matter. the xen wasa and an official of the planning department not below the rank of deputy secretary shall appear tomorrow and explain the position. the officials resent today shall remain in attendance. -- xen phe division gilgit baltistan having placed on record copy of proposal regarding water scheme in gilgit baltistan submitted to the concerned division has stated that these schemes are es sential to provide clean drinking water to the area. the secretary planning has stated that pc1 for these schemes shall be prepared on priority basis to include the same in the next annual development program for allocation of funds and start of work. secretary health having submitted copy of the report of the inspection team prepared in pursuance of the direction of this court regarding water supply system and standard of drinking water in municipal area of district gilgit has stated that scheme incorp orated in the letter mark a produced by the xen wasa (phe) are included in the report and on the basis of this report the works and planning department has already initiated the process for preparation of pc1 and allocation of funds. sr. advocate and president supreme appellate court, gilgit baltistan at this stage pointed out that the implementation of the proposed schemes included in the inspection report being subject to the allocation of funds, may take some time, but the people in gilgit baltistan and particularly in the municipal area of gilgit are deprived of clean drinking water which is basic need of life therefore immediate action is required to be taken for supply of clean drinking water by replacing repairing the damaged san itation system, the sodimentation and chlorination of the water and proper functioning of filtration plants already installed in the city at different places including the filtration plant installed at the main water sources. there is no need of preparation of pc1 and allocation of separate funds for repair of pipe line, sodimentation and chlorination of water in the filtration plants already installed and department has to meet such expenses from running budget for the maintenance of such proj ects therefore the page excuse of shortage of funds or the technical advise or approval of any other administrative department is not involved for the maintenance work for supply of clean drinking water. the secretary works states that the immediate steps for supply of purified drinking water by making the filtration plants operational and by repair of pipe lines and sodimentation and chlorination of water will be taken and the maintenance of water schemes already in operation shall also be done on priority fro the current budget. the director environment present in court shall inspect the sites of all the filtration plants including the main sources of water supply, sanitation and water pipe lines, the position of sodimentation and chlorination of the water an submit report to this court within fortnight. -- director epa submitted that incompliance with the orders of this court dated -- the technical team of gilgit -baltist an epa carried out a detailed survey and testing of filtration plants installed in gilgit city and three water supply complexes for sedimentation and chlorination. according to the statement and report submitted by epa there are filtration plants instal led at various locations in gilgit city, out of those plants, plants are in operation and plants are either incomplete or non functional due to some reasons. the director epa, submitted that the technical team of epa, carried out survey and inspec tion of the following sites; cmh, jutial gilgit. army public school college jutial gilgit. public school college (boys section). khomar chowk. muhammadi muhallah kashrote gilgit. bargali hat khomar damote. airport. airport chowk. fatah bagh. paltany muhallah. dhq, gilgit. according to the report some of the filtration plants require repair and maintenance, while complete report regarding some of plants have not been furnished due to non -availability of operational staff deputed at the filtration plants. the absence of operational staff at these important rather sensitive plants is highly deplorable. the depa rtment should take disciplinary page action against those officials. who are irregular in performance of their duties. it is further recommended in the report that the inexperience and untrained operational staff should be trained so that the plants are properl and smoothly operated. it is also pointed out in the report that proper chlorination and sedimentation is not carried out in burmus and upper jutial water supply complex are neither covered nor fences, resultantly animals can easily excess to these comp lexes and due to animals activities the water of these complexes is polluted which is dangerous for health. the report further reveals that inexperience and untrained chowkidars have been deputed for operation of these complexes. it is also mentioned in he report that the water of these complexes is contaminated and hazardous for public health. the third complex i.e. lower jutial water complex as per report and statement of aee, phe present on behalf of xen, phe, is closed due to shortage of water. the xen and aee, phe, are directed to make emergency basis arrangements to supply the drinking water to the consumers from the complex and submit compliance report on or before the next date of hearing as the drinking water is the basic need of human being and essential for human life. so far as sedimentation and chlorination process of the filtration plants is concerned the aee, phe, requested one weeks time to carry out sedimentation and chlorination of these plants as well as water supply complex. he is directed to materialize his commitment before the next date and submit compliance report. the director health services dr. nazeem khan, present in court states that the drinking water su pplied by the phe, in gilgit city is contaminated and this contaminated water causes different type of water borne diseases in the area. the phe department is also directed to carry out necessary repair and maintenance of filtration plants strictly lin accordance with the recommendation of epa experts. the case is adjourned to a date in 3rd week of april, for further proceedings. -- director environment states that filtration plants in gilgit with chlorination are functional but the sedimentation of the water is not satisfactory. ml per litter is being regularly carried out in the city and outside city by trained untrained staff but the sedimentation of the water cannot be carried out for non completion of repair work of the water tanks in upper and lower jutial and barmas. he tates that contracts for repair of page water tanks at the above said places were given to habib -ur-rehman contractors and despite expiry of contract period in december and payment of secured advance they inst ead of completing the work have abandoned their contracts. similarly the contractor after partial construction of the filtration plant left the cite and remaining work was completed by the department to make the plant functional which is not up to the requ ired standard. the position explained above reveals that contractors in connivance with the concerned officials of the department have misappropriated the government money by getting secured advance without completing the work of repair of the water tanks and construction of filtration plant as a result of which the residents of gilgit have been deprived of the supply of clean drinking water. this is sad that department without visualizing the government loss and consequence of supply of manip ulated water to the public extend undue favour of giving secured advance to the contractors. it is evident from the above factual position that department without inspection and progress of the work at cite has shown latitude in the payments of contract money and caused loss to the government for benefit of the contractors. this is general complaint in gilgit baltistan that projects of public utility are frustrated for non completion of the work within time as a result of which huge loss is caused to the exchequer at the cost of public inconvenience. the chief secretary will personally look into the matter and hold a discreet inquiry into the irregularities and delay in the construction of filtration plant and repair of water tanks in question as a result which the people have been deprived of the supply of clean drinking water. the chief secretary will make efforts to complete the inquiry into the matter and in the light thereof will fix the responsibility of the concerned official and the contractors fo the loss caused to the government and will take appropriate action in accordance with law. the xen has pointed out that under the rules in such cases of naked breach of contract by the contractors, the department is empowered to forfeit the security of contractors or itself complete the project or the leftover work is completed on the cost and risk of the contractor. this being so the chief secretary taking into consideration this aspect of the matter will ascertain the reason for not invoking the penal clauses of the contract by the competent authority in the department in case of breach of contract by the contractor. the assistant executive engineer of the department has informed us that in danyore the damaged pipelines have been repaired replaced and work in this regard is still in progress and that the work of sedimentation and chlorination of the water is being conducted as per requirement. page further proceedings will be taken up tomorrow after the appearance of the chief secretary in chamber to explain the position of funds. this order will be conveyed to the chief secretary today. -- he however pointed out that due to shortage of funds department is facing acute difficulty in the repair work of the water tanks as well as filtration plant and the ancillary matters. the chief secretary while appearing before us in chamber in another case has given assurance for providing necessary funds therefore the department may ask for allocation of the re quired funds in accordance with the procedure prescribed under the rules. the xen states that subject to availability of funds the needful will be done on priority and compliance report will be submitted to the registrar this court within a fortnight. order accordingly. -- phe states that the proposal for construction of three projects of water reservoir for supply of clean drinking water to barmas, daynore and jutial has been made the department and on approval for availability of funds the projects will be completed on priority. the assistant chief, department states that phe without completing the codal formalities in accordance with the required procedure has submitted the proposal which could not be approved in the current budget and will be considered for allocation of funds in the financial year commencing from 1st july learned advocate general has stated that the project below the cost of rs. million does not require approval of department rather the concerned department itself can approve the project for grant of funds, therefore the matter is unnecessarily being complicated at the cost of delay in the projects of public importance. the xen phe and assistant chief department have conceded that projects up to the cost of rs. million do not require formal approval of department or chief secretary. this is noticeable that the chief secretary while appearing in cham ber before us in another matter on has given assurance for providing necessary funds for the project but it appears that the concerned department has not taken any step for release of funds in the current page financial year. in view thereof we direc that the secretary works after completing the procedural requirements will approve the proposed project for construction and allocation of funds in the next financial year before 15th july positively. in case the proposal is beyond the power of sec retary works he will coordinate with secretary finance and secretary for approval of the scheme for the purpose of allocation of funds in the light of the assurance given by chief secretary before this court. phe will pursue the matter for allocation of funds and secretary department will submit the copy of draft adp before 30th june and final approval by 15th july to the registrar of this court. the case shall be relisted immediately on reopening of the court after summer vaca tions. --. the secretary has stated that in the light of revised policy the water supply scheme of burmus, danyore and jutial mentioned in the -- have not been included in the ad for allocation of funds and that pc of these schemes has also been not submitted for approval. the secretary however conceded that supply of clean drinking water to the citizen is obligation of the government and being basic necessity of life is es sential part of fundamental rights guaranteed in gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order and the constitution of pakistan. he also admitted that deviation from the order of this court in respect of providing clean drinking water to th citizens would amount to deny fundamental rights of the people and also defy the order of the court which is binding on all executive and judicial authorities in gilgit baltistan as provided in article () of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governa nce) order notwithstanding the position taken in the letter sent by the minister concerned to the registrar of this court in respect of funds the public in general cannot be deprived of the legal and fundamental rights for the administr ative or other reasons, therefore on going water schemes or projects of public utility ancillary to public life cannot be suspended or postponed with diversion of funds to any other purpose. the supply of clean drinking water to the people is an obligatio of the government therefore, no exception can be taken to the completion of such projects of public utility, which relate to the basic necessity of life of people. the secretary in pursuance of the order of this court passed on -- will take necessary steps for page approval of the above water supply scheme in adp for and submit compliance report within a fortnight. during the course of hearing of the case it has been brought to our notice that out of total cost of rs. nineteen corer for construction of phase of judicial complex at jutial the contract of which has been given with the completion date of 30th june only an amount of rs. eight million has been allocated in the current financial year, which would amount not only to frustrate the contract and prolong the construction of judicial complex, but is also wastage of public money and time and to deny the fundamental rights of people of excess to justice. the secretary planning, secretary finance, and secretary works, explaining the correct position will submit their reports to the registrar of this court within a week. the case in respect of judicial complex will be put up wit the present case after two weeks. -- -baltistan for compliance of the orders of this court dated -- and no sooner the same is approved by the chief minister, necessary action for implementation of the scheme will be initiated. the advocate general on behalf of provincial government informed the court that sufficient funds are being allocated to wasa phe fro regular budget for maintenance of water supply system in and around the gilgit city but due to improper utilization of funds, the residents of the areas are compelled to use contaminated water which is hazardous for the health of general public. the representatives of phe contended that a major portion of regular budget is being spent on the salaries of staff etc and remaining on the minor repairs of water supply system. while a sufficient fund is required for repair work of burmas, banyor and jutial water complex and installation of filtration plants, be that as it may we have already issued directions for provision of funds for these projects in the adp. the secretary d, works, and finance were directed to submi their reports regarding compliance of orders of this court dated -- and -- but neither any report on behalf of the concerned secretaries is submitted nor the secretaries put their attendance before this court. the concerned secretaries sh ould attend the court on the next date alongwith their reports comments as directed on previous date. the case is adjourned to a date to be fixed on next week for further proceedings. the deputy chief planning haji nazir ahmed is directed to pursue the mat ter personally land submit compliance report on or before the next date of hearing. --. page despite specific directions to muhammad ismail assistant executive engineer wasa vide -- for necessary arrangement of inspectio of pipe line by wasip. today no one appear on behalf of wasa whereas the public representative, the deputy secretary finance and representative of department are present in person. muhammad ismail executive engineer will appear before the court tomor row to explain his position for non -compliance and show cause why he be not proceeded against for frustrating the order of court. the exn wasa shall also appear in court tomorrow. --. in view thereof the inspection shall be carried out in terms of the -- in present of representatives of local area and report will be submitted within days. in consequence to the intervention of the court and different orders passed on various dates the wa ter and power department government of gilgit -baltistan approved the scheme for improvement of the supply of the clean drinking water and finally a special package was given by the chief minister for water scheme with direction to complete the scheme on pr iority and in the light of the statement made by the deputy chief planning in respect of the supply of clean drinking water on .., the court proceeded to pass the order as under: .. -baltistan issued on .. mark a stated that a special package for the project of water treatment system in barmas, danyore, and jutial has been approved in the current financial year an in pursuance thereof, the department has been directed to submit pc i for approval on priority, so that the work can be started at an early date. assistant engineer wasa states that the repair and replacement of the pipe lines in muhallas of dany ore has already been completed, and compliance report submitted in this behalf, is available or record. he further stated that the work of sedimentation, chlorination, and purification of water is included in the special package of the chief minister and same will be carried out accordingly. sr, advocate has pointed out that the repair works and replacement of pipe line in danyore as page stated by the assistant engineer wasa is only a paper work and the pipes on the spot have not been replaced. muhammad karim, lambardar and muhammad ibrahim ex -chairman union council danyore present in court state that old pipe line so far has not been replaced and report submitted by the assistant engineer wasa is against to the factual position. sr. advocate and deputy chief planning suggested for appointment of a commission for physical verification of the work. the learned advocate general has supported the proposal and submitt ed that general manager wasep may be asked to depute a team of skilled person for physical verification to ascertain as to whether the old pipe line in danyore area has been replaced or not. we order accordingly with direction that inspection ill be made within a week and the report shall be submitted within two weeks. the expenditure incurred on the inspection including the fee etc. of specialist if any will be born by the water and power department, provincial government gilgit baltistan. was a. in view of the directives issued by the chief minister, the requirement of scheme of treatment of clean drinking water is fulfilled. the matter in respect of replacement of old pipe lines in danyore will be re -listed within two week. the issue regarding the defect in the pipelines of the water supply in daynore and its replacement was also considered and direction was given to wasep for technical inspection of the cite. the team deputed by the wasep for physical inspection, submitted the report as under: technical inspection team report on clean drinking water danyore area the honorable supreme appellate court directed wasep (akpbsp) gilgit baltistan through order s.m.c. no. dated october to depute a technical team to carry out the physical verification to ascertain whether the old pipe line in daynore area (gilgit) has been replaced or not. in this connection, wasep requested the registrar supreme appellate court through a letter dated october for provi ding the necessary documents with regards to the project in question. the registrar directed wasep to collect the required documents from the concerned department (wasa). with regards to this, wasep contacted wasa department through letter dated october and wasa provided the contract agreements for schemes (list is annexed with the report). these schemes were included in maintenance head for the period july to may in compliance with the court order, wasep (akpbsp) deputed a technica team comprising of senior engineer and engineers to carry out the physical verification of schemes on site against the documents provided by wasa. as per page court directions (court 14th october, ), the inspection was to be carried out in the presence of representatives of local area. technical team contacted the local representatives and wasa concern engineer. with the mutual consent, the visit to the site was scheduled on october, at am. a meeting was arranged with local representatives and the concern engineer wasa before starting the physical verification. wasep team explained the purpose objective of physical verification of schemes and shared the detail of schemes to be inspected with the participants. the local representatives stated that the community of daynore doesn have any objection on these schemes and they are satisfied with work done by the contractors. as per their statement, there is no need of physical verification of the schemes indi cated by wasa. they representatives mentioned that the request was for a different scheme worth million started in and completed in people of daynore had submitted an application with the honorable court for an impartial inspection of the a bove -mentioned scheme to find out whether the pipes used are as per specs and standards stated in the contract agreement or not. at the end of the meeting, a resolution was the representatives of local area by incorporating the decisions taken i the meeting and all the representatives signed the resolution (resolution is annexed with the report). conclusion out come upon the order of the supreme appellate court waesp constituted a technical team for the physical verification of the subject roject. the team visited the site and had a meeting with local representatives as per the order of the honorable. wasa provided the documents related to schemes included in maintenance head for the period july to may for the inspection whereas representatives of local area (daynore) showed their satisfaction with the work done by wasa on these schemes and resisted to conduct verification of the said schemes. as per statement of the representatives, they have submitted an application with the honorable court for the inspection of a different scheme worth million started in and completed in the technical team could not carry out the physical verification of the scheme mentioned by th community as this scheme was not in the list schemes provided by wasa for verification. in the light of the report, no further proceedings being required in the page matter, the case was closed vide .. as under: .. the technical inspection team of wasep has submitted report on the matter relating to the supply of clean drinking water to daynore with the following conclusion outcome: conclusion outcome: upon the order of the supreme appellate court wasep constituted a technical team for the physical verification of the subject project. the team visited the site and had a meeting with local representatives as per the order of the honorable. wasa provid ed the documents related to schemes included in maintenance head for the period july to may for the inspection whereas representatives of local area (daynore) showed their satisfaction with the work done by wasa on these schemes and resis ted to conduct verification of the said schemes. as per statement of the representatives, they have submitted an application with the honorable court for the inspection of a different scheme worth million started in and completed in the technical team could not carry out the physical verification of the scheme mentioned by the community as this scheme was not in the list schemes provided by wasa for verification. the learned advocate general in the light of report of wasep has subm itted that the representatives of the area have confused the matter before the court with some other scheme which is not subject matter of the present case and further proceeding may be closed. in view of the report of wasep and the statement made by xen wasa before this court on .., no further proceedings are required and case is accordingly disposed of. clean drinking water is a basic necessity of life which is a fundamental right of the people and government is obliged to provide clean drinking water to the citizens as a legal duty. this is appreciateable that despite limited sources and financial constraint, government of gilgit -baltistan has approved the scheme for supply of clean drinking water in the welfare of the people in pur suance of their fundamental rights guaranteed under gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, read with universal declaration of human rights of united nations. page this suo moto case having born fruit stands disposed of. chief