page in the supreme appellate court, gilgit baltistan, gilgit (original jurisdiction) smc no. complaint against agpr gilgit chief judge. judge. present: advocate general, gilgit baltistan. deputy accountant general, accounts officer, hashmat ullah, assistant accounts officer. date of hearing: order the assistant registrar of this court put up a note on to the effect that accountant general pakistan revenue, gilgit baltistan vide his letter no. ta i court dated 23rd june, to the effect that accountant general pakistan revenue, gilgit baltistan vides his letter no. ta i court dated 23rd june, had canceled the cheque bearing no. dated 22nd june, which was issued in favour of new capital cars islamabad for the reason that there was a ban on purchase of new luxury vehicles from a private dealer. whereas, he was repeatedly informed that the chief judge, supreme appellate court, gilgit baltistan in exercise of powers within the allocated budget had sanctioned to purchase old vehicle for liaison office at islamabad. the cancellation of cheque was amounting to distespect and disgrace to the court and the same is deemed an interruption and intervention in the work affair of the court. this note was put up to the registrar. who has proposed that the matter may be placed before division bench of the court? page the matter came up before the court on the court observed that the accountant general gilgit baltistan despite notices remained absent on the date of hearing i.e. and two other officers of agpr, raja janghi buhadur, accounts officer and it was observed further that the accountant general gilgit baltistan was directed to explain his position as to why he had not appeared and as to whether his conduct is an interference and interruption in the affairs of the court. in this view of the matter the conduct of agpr gilgit squarely falls within the ambit of article of gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, on abdul hameed pasha accontant general gilgit baltistan in pursuance of the order of this court appeared in chamber and placed on record his reply to show cause notice dated o2 annex a wherein he has very categorically stated that being a senior officer, he cannot think of defying the court orders. .on another incident had taken place and this court had also taken the notice to the effect that the staff of agpr called a strike on 24th july, while raising derogatory slogans and staged an agitation at the main gate of the court. in addition thereto a report was lodged by another official of agpr consequent whereupon a case was registered under section ppc against liaqat alam and his brother with the police station gilgit city who had filed the complaint against accounts officer before this court. moreover, it was noticed that the aggb has neither tendered page unconditional apology nor has submitted satisfactory reply to show cause notice. he was directed to submit a proper reply in this regard whereas other officials of agpr namely, deputy accountant general, accounts officer, .hashmat ullah, assistant accounts officers were issued show cause notice as to why they may not be proceeded against for committing contempt of court. the aforesaid officials in pursuance of the order submitted reply to show cause notice. .on since, the respondent officer having realized his misconduct and had shown his sincere respondent officer having realized his misconduct and had shown his sincere repentance and tendered unconditional and unqualified apology, the court accepts the apology and discharge the notice. the court vide directed the agpr to hold an inquiry into the conduct of officers and on the completion of inquiry the responsibility of the employees be also fixed who had committed act of raising slogans derogatory to the honour and respect of the court. he, in pursuance thereof, had appointed accounts officer as inquiry officer. since, it was a very serious matter pertaining to the institution of judiciary, they cannot be allowed to disgrace and lower the dignity, honour and authority of the court and it was considered appropriate to inquire into the matter by an independent inquiry committee to be constituted by chief secretary gilgit baltistan. the inquiry committee was constituted accordingly and required to conclude the proceedings within a period of one month and on the completion of the inquiry the report would be submitted to the registrar of this court. page so far the tendering of unconditional apology of other officials namely, deputy accountant general, accounts officer, hashmat ullah, assistant accounts officers of agpr would be considered on receipt of inquiry report. the committee was comprising of dig as member, sr. assistant registrar, supreme appellate court gilgit baltistan as member and deputy accounts officer skardu as member of the inquiry committee .the minute examination of the inquiry report reveals that the matter was thoroughly inquired and after recording statements of the witnesses, it was concluded recommended that since the apology tendered by the accountant general gilgit baltistan has already been accepted by this court and the issue of cheque has also been settled, so the case may be filed without and further acton. .today deputy account general, accounts officer, hashmat ullah, assistant accounts officers of agpr are present in person in court. they have surrendered themselves at the mercy of the court and claimed unconditional and unqualified apology sincerely and have shown their repentance. .in view of the above discussion, we deem it proper to accept their unconditional apology and discharge the contempt notices issued to them in he interest of justice. order accordingly. this suo moto case stands disposed of. chief