page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan (original jurisdiction) s.m.c. no. (dilapidated condition of roads cleanness in gilgit city) chief -baltistan chief engineer gilgit region xen division gilgit chief officer municipal committee gilgit date of hearing: -- order c.j: the chief officer municipal committee has submitted that to improve the civic condition of municipal area, the city has been divided into two zones. in zone -, jutial bala and jutial payeen, sonikot, kashroot noth, kashroot south, nagral, konodas and naseem cinema choke is included, whereas the areas of majini mohalla, domiya bala, domiyal payeen, city area, hospital colony, nagral bala, old polo ground, amphary, baseen bala, and baseen payeen are in zone ii and available staff has been accordingly deputed under the supervision of sanitary inspector with two sub -sanitary insp ectors in each zone and that as a result of that arrangement lot of improvement has been made in cleanness of the city. he stated that efforts are being made to further improve the position within available sources and undertakes to maintain the improve position on regular basis without any latitude and will submit progress report to the registrar of this court for our perusal in chamber. the chief engineer division gilgit states that the contract for the construction of roads from public schoo choke to jutial bus stand and from page jutial check post to sakwar chungi were given about three years ago but contractors have abandoned these projects and department has no option except to invoke clause (c of the contract. he states that case is at he stage formal order and within a week the order will be passed for the completion of the left over work of both the projects at the cost and risk of the contractors and that fresh contracts shall be awarded with issue of work order before 15th december he following he instruction of the higher authorities, strictly in accordance with law made efforts to complete these projects, but instead of appreciating his performance, his service career has been put at stance by the persons of vested interest. the chief enginee stated that as a result of efforts made by xen division gilgit, the projects which have been abandoned by the contractors at the cost of public time and money have been revived. the harassment of an official for performance of duty rightly in compli ance of the orders of this court would amounts to frustrate the order of the court and chief secretary may take notice of the matter. keeping in view of the position explained by chief engineer and chief officer of the municipal committee, further procee ding in the matter are closed with direction that chief engineer and chief officer municipal page committee will submit progress report on the subject matters for our perusal in chamber. this is not the function of this court to control the administrative affairs of the departments of government of gilgit -baltistan or interfere in the policy matter of the government, rather the court being custodian of legal rights of the people may interfere in the matters which involve public rights. there is general compla int of undue favour in public projects and poor performance of wasa and works department of gilgit -baltistan which are responsible to maintain water supply schemes and public roads etc. the government incurred huge development and underevelopment expenditu re for the improvement of the roads and water supply scheme etc but this is sad that due to the inefficiency of these departments no visible improvement is made in the projects of public utility, as a result thereof, the public money and time, without any substantial work useful to a common person go waste. keeping in view the poor performance of these departments, it will be appropriate to observe that the chief secretary while taking notice of the situation, may propose to the higher authorities for the stablishment of an independent development authority for the development of gilgit baltistan in the public interest. disposed of. chief