page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit. cpla no. mr. -ud-din, acting chief judge. mr., judge. suleman sharif khan shamas sons of shafi residents of seegali muhallah gilgit. petitioner defe ndants mst.maroof daugfhter of abdullah khan through lrs:- amin khan younus sons mst.rajo daughter kashorte gilgit. respondent plaintiff leave to appeal under order of (gilgit baltistan empowerment and self governance order) a gainst the judgment ordere dated -- whereby the learned single baltistan has upheld judgme nt decree dated -- of the learned additional district for setting aside both the impu nged judgment decrees of learned lower courts by maintinaing the judgment decree of learned trial court dated -- appeal may graciously be accepted by converting the leave to appeal into appeal to meet the ends of justice. present: date of hearing --: order:- mr., .. this leave to appeal has been preferred against the judgment -- a learned single bench of the chief court gilgit -baltistan, whereby a learned single -baltistan has upheld the judgment decree dated -- learned additional district the facts of the case ar as such that, the mother of the present respondent mst. maroof has filed suit no. before the court of learned civil against the present petitioner with the contention that she being the sister of the father of defendants, is en titled to get possession of her sharie share from the defendant petitioners. the plaintiff passed away during pendency of the suit as such her legal heirs were arrayed in the list of respondent. the learned civil suited the plaintiff holding that the additional issue no. has been proved by the defendant against the plaintiff. the findings on the additional issue no. is re -produced hereunder: onus of this issue is placed on defendant to prove. defendant examined two ws to prove this issue. both ws stated that plaintiff has given forgiven her shari share to defendant father vide deed dated --. this issue proved in favour of defen dants. the legal heirs of the plaintiff mst.maroof feeling aggrieved and being dis -satisfied with the findings of the learned civil the learned addition al district aside. page the present petitioner filed a revision petition before the learned chi ef court against the judgment decree the learned additional district the revision petition was a learned single -baltistan and, the same was dismissed. hence this petition before this court. we heard the learned counsel at a length. he argued that mst. maroof had abandoned her shari share in favour of her brother and father of the present petitioners. the present petitioner have fully proved the additional issue no. framed in this regard. the learned counsel further argued that the father of the plaintiff mst. maroof late abdullah had passed away in the year and her hereditment was devolved to the father of present petitioner under the customary law prevailing at that time. the cost mary law precluded mst.maroof to get any share from her father hereditament. we after going through the record, have come to the conclusion that the learned civil superior courts are at consonance that unless a solid proof is available on the record that a pardanasheen lady has withdrawn from her share without any coercive and undue influence, she can not be deprived of her legal share. in the case in hand the father of the present petitioner being male was in a position to have undue influen ce over her sister mst. maroof and to page compel her not to claim her share. he might also use unfair means to deprive his sister from her share. the next point raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner also has devoid of substance and it contradi cts the ist point taken by the counsel in his arguments, reasoning with that if mst. maroof was precluded from getting any share in hereditment of her father under customary law prevailing at that time, then what was need to execute the document though i is not admissible in evidence but it contra indicates that mst. maroof was not excluded by any custom prevailing at that time when her father demised. further more a plea of custom unless proved beyond any shadow of doubt with solid evidence to be acted upon for time immemorial in a particular area, cannot be pretext to deprive a female co sharer from her sharie share. the upshot of the above discussion is that the petition is refused to convert the same into appeal and dismissed with costs. announced -- acting chief