page in the supreme a ppellate court gilgit -baltistan at regitry branch skardu. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr.pla no. syed ali shah others petitioner s. the state through fia gilgit respondent. present: ali khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. special prosecutor, fia gilgit baltistan for the respondent. date of hearing: --. date of delivery of detail judgment: -... judgment dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this appeal has been arisen out of the impugned judgment in criminal appeal no. dated .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. the appeal of the state respondent was accepted while setting aside the judgment in anti no. dated .. passed the learned sessions and remanded the case to the learned trial court to hear the parties afresh and pass orders in the light of material available on record or even to seek fresh evidence from either of the par ties. page the learned counsel for the petitioner contends that the state complainant lodged a criminal case against the petitioner accused and challan of the case submitted in the court of learned sessions -corruption skardu for trial. the learned trial court after framing charge completing codal formalities recorded the prosecution evidence and upon hearing the parties acquitted the petitioner accused giving them benefit of doubt as the prosecution witnes ses have not implicated them. he further contends that the state complainant feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said judgment the learned trial court skardu filed criminal appeal no. before the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. whereby, the learned chief court without applying its judicial mind accepted the appeal of the respondent by setting aside the judgment of the learned trial court and remanded the case back. while saying so the learned counsel for the petitioner referred the operative part of the judgment the learned trial court which is reproduced here under: quote: accused cashier ehsan ali had prepared pay bills while ldc typist ejaz hussain had typed the same. accused syed ali shah accountant of dis skardu had put up the bills to dis muhammad ali for signature who signed the pay bills as ddo then the bills were submitted in treasury skardu for pass. different t.o.s passed the bills from to and accused ehsan ali cashier draw the amount rom nbp skardu. all of the above persons including present accused played their respective role in connection drawal of the amount. but recovery was shown against accused ehsan al i. as per recovery memo exh. pw a rs. were recovered from accused ehsan ali in presence of magistrate muhammad ibrahim and marginal witnesses muhammad hassan and muhammad page ali but neither the recovery witnesses nor the magistrate who attested the recovery memo were examined in the court. without examining its marginal witnesses and magistrate recovery memo has no evidential value. while no recovery was affected from accused syed ali shah. moreover recovery of rs. the remaining embezzled amount was also shown against accused ehsan ali who had deposited this amoun in national bank skardu but neither proper recovery memo was recovered in this regard nor any recovery witness and concerned official of national bank was examined in the court showing that this amount was really deposited by the accused ehsan ali in the national bank. without preparing recovery memo and examining marginal witnesses this recovery has also no value to the eyes of law. statement of pws under section cr. p.c. recorded during investigation of the case is not available on judicial record. stock register and expenditure register recovered in the case are also not made part of judicial record. the concerned tos who passed the pay bills on different occasion from december, to march, were neither cited as pws in the calendar of witnes nor examined in the court. investigation of the case was not conducted properly. the lacunas pointed above are of serious nature not curable and fatal to prosecution case. it will be absolutely unsafe to record conviction against the accused on the basis of evidence available on record. prosecution has failed to prove its case beyond doubt. accused are hereby acquitted giving benefit of doubt. file after completion be consigned to record unquote:- we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, gone through the materials on record and both the judgments of learned chief court as well as the learned trial court, in our considered view, the prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case against the petitioner as none of the witnesses so examined has implicated the petitioners. consequent thereto the learned trial court has rightly acquitted the petitioner by giving them benefit of doubt. whereas the learned chief court failed to appre ciate that the prosecution could not produce any corroborative witness though available for the reason best know to them. it was not the duty of the petitioner accused to prove their innocence page but it was the legal duty of the prosecution to prove its cas beyond reasonable doubt. since the prosecution has failed to prove its case against the petitioner accused, the learned chief court was not justified for remanding the case back to the learned trial court for fresh trial. in view of the above discussion we, therefore, allow this appeal, set aside the impugned judgment in criminal appeal no. dated .., the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan and maintain the judgment in case no. dated .., passe by the learned trial court. these were the reasons of our short ... the appeal is allowed. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?