page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. syed konain others petitioners. provincial government others respondents. present: ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. the advocate general gilgit -baltistan on behalf of the respondents. -baltistan. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this civil petition has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. the brief facts of the case are that the petitioner we re appointed as regular teachers in education department gilgit baltistan in the year through various appointment orders. consequently, they have been paid their salaries from their appointments up to later on, in july, the respondent stopped discontinued the payment of the salaries of the petitioner page on the grounds that the posts of the incumbents have not been included in the nis. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court praying therein that the respondent be directed to include the posts of the petitioner in the nis of the finance department gilgit -baltistan by declaring the petitioner to be entitled to appear before the committee constituted by the then chief minister gilgit -baltistan in order to prove their qualification as done with other teachers of education, department gilgit baltistan. upon hearing, the learned chief court dismissed the said writ petition. the learned counsel for the petition ers submits that three () committee were constituted by the respondent in order to check the suitability and the qualification of the teachers who were appointed alongwith the petitioners. he submits that the petitioner have not been given opportunity to be presented before such committee as such the petitioner have been discriminated and not treated equally amongst equals. per learned counsel, the petitioner were appointed by the competent authorities and they were performing their duties to the enti re satisfaction to their seniors but their services have been terminated illegally and without giving any reasons. he further submits that the petitioner were constrained to file writ petition in the learned chief court which upon hearing has wrongly been dismissed vide impugned order. per learned counsel, the said impugned judgment is not page sustainable and liable to be set aside by allowing this leave to appeal. on the other hand, the learned advocate general supports the impugned order pas sed by the learned chief court. he contends that the facts of the case are different from the case of those teachers who have been called for verification of their qualification by the various departmental committees. per learned advocate general, sinc e, the petitioner have been appointed illegally and unlawfully by the unauthorized authorities without fulfilling the codal formalities of the service rules, therefore, they are no more employees of education department. he further contends that the learned chief court has rightly dismissed the writ petition of the petitioner as the same was not maintainable. he prays that the impugned order may graciously be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, per used the material on record and gone through the impugned order. admittedly, the petitioner were appointed illegally, unlawfully and without fulfilling the requisite codal formalities by the respondents, therefore, they can not be considered as the employ ees of education department. in our considered view, the impugned order is well founded as no infirmity has been pointed out by the learned counsel for the petitioners. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the page impugned .. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?