page in the supreme appellate cou rt gilgit -baltistan cr. misc. no. chief judge syed jabbar. rahim ullah sons of shahzada khan sultanabad, gilgit. petitioner appellant the state respondent offence under section ppc and a.o. application for leave to the impugned judgment --, the chief cour gilgit -baltistan. present: malik haq nawaz, advocate for petitioners. haji jamal khan, advocate on record. dated of hearing: --. order. c.j .. the petitioner while facing trial for the charge under section ppc before the sessions have moved this second application before this court for grant of bail on the ground that in pursuance of observations made by this court in the earlier application disposed of vide --, the petitioner instead of moving trial court filed a direct grant of bail before the chief court gilgit -baltistan and the learned chief the therefore, further detention of petitioner in jail pending conclusion of the trial is not justified and that in any case the above observation of the chief court with reference to the order of this court may cause prejudice to the petitioner before the trial court and they may not be able to get the benefit of oubt arising in their favour on merits. the learned counsel also pointed out that as a result of baseless transfer application moved by the complainant before the chief court, the proceedings in the trial before the trial court have been struck off and the conclusion of trial has been un -necessarily delayed. after hearing the learned counsel for the petitioner and perused the record with his assistance we have found that the observations made by the chief court has no nexus with the order of this cour passed on -- which is read as under: the petitioner instead of agitating for bail before this court may approach the trial court for appropriate relief at proper stage and if so advised moved for the bail to the concern court after the evide nce of eye witnesses is the comments on the merits of the case with reference to evidence at this stage may prejudice the case of either party before the trial court but we have found that the observation of the chief court referred above appears to be out of the context therefore same is expunged. this may be pointed out that the expeditious disposal of a criminal case involving capital punishment is right of accused and the prosecution or compliant as the case mat be must not be allowed to use delaying tactics to prolong the trial at the cost of agony of detention of accused in jail. the chief court in exercise of its power of superintendent and the supervision of subordinate courts in gilgit -baltistan must take notice of such matters to avoid un -necessary delay in the disposal of criminal cases page and learned chief the trial court on the decision of the transfer application shall proceed in the trial day to day and conclude the proceeding within a month. this petition with above observation directions stands disposed of. chief