page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit. appeal no. in c.p.l.a no. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. -ud-din judge. syed faiz ali shah anothers petitioner iqbal aman others respondent civil leave to the judgment -- chief court gilgit -baltistan. present: mr.muha mmad issa sr. advocate alongwith malik shafqat wali sr. advocate on behalf of the respondents. date of hearing: --: judgment:- the petitioner assailed the impugned --, whereby a learned single baltistan has set aside the judgments decrees the courts below and remanded he case to the learned civil the present petitioner felt dissatisfaction and being aggrieved from the impugned judgment invoked the jurisdiction of this court and sol icited through the present grant of leave to appeal and to accept the same by setting aside the impugned judgment the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. we after hearing the learned counsel for the petitioner deemed proper to iss ue notices to the respondent to attend the court and defend themselves before granting the petition and heard both the learned counsel for the parties. the petition holds facts behind it are, summarized as under, that the present petitioner filed a suit for declaration with the consequential reliefs that the defendant be dispossessed from a partial part of the disputed property and also be restrained from interference into the remaining suit property perpetually. the trial court concerned after going hrough the procedure finally dismissed the suit of plaintiff on merits. the present respondent filed 1st the impugned decree the learned civil court but faced the same consequences and their appeal was dismissed by the 1st appell ate court. the present respondent did not stop there but, filed a revision petition against both the decrees page the learned lower courts before the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. hence this petition before this court against the impugned jud gment the chief court gilgit -baltistan. today, we heard both the learned counsel for the parties. the learned counsel for the petitioner urged that, (a) the plaintiff have claimed the ownership over the disputed land and the defendant have cl aimed the collective ownership of the village gahkuch. both the learned lower courts have thoroughly gone into the facts of the case and finally dismissed the suit, rejecting the claim of plaintiff and declared the ownership of the defendant over the sui land but the learned single (b) the ownership of the disputed property might be decided either in favour of the plaintiff or in favour of the defendant and the lower courts have very rightly dismissed the suit and accepted the owners hip of the defendants. the government has nothing to do with disputed land as it is not khalisa sarkar but it is shamilat deh. the learned single on the other hand the learned counsel for the respondent defended the impugned judgment with the contention that the learned single we have thoroughly gone through the record of the case at length and also have consid ered the learned legal assistance of both the learned counsel for the parties and we are, afraid that, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment contrary to the contention wrapped with the plaint filed by the plaintiffs. the pl aintiffs, as has stated in para no. of this judgment, contended in the plaint that they are owners of the suit land, but the learned counsel for the respondent plaintiff seconds the impugned judgment the learned chief court. it is pertinent to note here that, district ghizer is not a settled area and if looked the lands in the district ghizer, as per view taken by the learned single ,then every inch of the land therein would be presumed to be khalisa sarkar because no ownership of the inhabitants has been determined through settlement by the provincial government. the learned page single -baltistan has ignored the fact that, the dispute between the parties pertaining to the suit and has been taken before the revenue authorities and tehsildar of the district, being the revenue court, has given a decision dated -- between the parties, we without going into the merits of the same just refer it that, if the land was khalisa sa rkar then the revenue court was well within jurisdiction to declare the disputed land as khalisa sarkar or at least the tehsildar could tackle the matter with higher authorities of the provincial overnment but he did not do so and determined the rights of the parties before him. the litigant public and the government or the government departments are equal before the courts of law and the courts are not supposed to protect the rights of governments or the authorities unless the government comes before the courts of law to protect the interest of the governments. the dispute between the present parties started since first it was taken before the revenue authorities, then before the civil courts, finally it reached before the chief court gilgit -baltistan in the year but the custodians of the provincial government remained mum and no claim from their side reached into the record of the case, asking to be party to defend the provincial government. it shows that the government has no interest over the disputed land as such we are disagreed with the finding of the learned single the upshot of the above discussion, is that the leave to appeal is converted into appeal and the impugned judgment is set aside, the judgments and decrees the learned civil the case is remanded to the learned chief court for adjudicating the revision petition submitted before, and adjudicate the same on merits betw een the parties without being prejudice by this judgment in regard to determination of the rights of the parties. this judgment is announced today in open court in the presence of the parties counsel