page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil misc. no. civil misc. no. in civil appeal no. in cpla. no. tahira yasub dsp others petitioners. government of gb others respondents. leave to the impugned march the gilgit -baltistan chief court in writ jurisdiction to the effect that petitioner appellant being the necessary party have not been impleaded in the proceedings and to the effect that the -baltistan chief court has passed the impugned judgment exercising a jurisdiction hich was not vested in it, hence the impugned judgment cannot be given effect as being a void judgment hence may be set aside to meet the ends of justice, equity and fair play. present: dated of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, .. this appeal has been arisen out of the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan. who upon hearing accepted the writ petition of the respondent no. namely so(s) --() dated .. page issued by res pondent by declaring the said illegal. the re spondent no. directed to continue his service as dsp under otification no. c.m.sectt. dated .. issued the then chief minister, gilgit -baltistan passed in appeal filed by the respondent. the petitioner have been directed to treat the respondent as a permanent employee of police department gilgit -baltistan and the respondent has also been declared entitle for his all back benefits including his seniority with effect from ... the petitioner were impleaded as respond ents being necessary party in the writ petition hence they feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment filed leave to appeal before this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and consequent there, suspended the operation of the impugned judgment. the case was heard today. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner were necessary party affectees and being senior in police service were not impleaded by the respondent no. in writ petition no. before the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan, as such the petitioner were condemned unheard. he further submits that the gilgit -baltistan government has not filed appeal agai nst the said impugned judgment for the reasons best known to them. the petitioner on gaining knowledge and being necessary party affectees filed this leave to appeal page before this court and they prayed that the same may pleased be heard and decided on merits. the learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that respondent no. was serving as inspector (bps -) in airport securit force (asf) wherefrom his services were placed at the disposal of the gilgit -baltistan police as eputy superintendent of police on deputation basis vide notification dated .. for a period of three years on standard terms and conditions. which is reproduced as under: to be published in the gazette of pakistan part -i. government of pakistan ministry of kashmir affairs northern areas islamabad, 24th february, notification no. dy. na -iii cs :- in exercise of powers conferred on him by rule (i) (d) of the northern areas rules of business, as amended and in pursuance of the no objection certificate (noc) given by both the lending department and the borrowing department the minister of kashmir affairs northern areas in his capacity as chairman northern areas has been pleased to approve the deputation of (bs-) in the aviation wing ministry of defense, in the northern areas police department as deputy superintendent of police (dsp) for a period of years on standar terms and conditions with immediate effect. his services shall be utilized as public relation officer (pro) to the minister for kashmir affairs northern areas chairman northern areas. --sd-- (muhammad ikram) deputy secretary to the government of pa kistan he fur ther submits that after thirty nine () days i.e. on .., the respondent no. was illegally by violating of laws of land, he was absorbed in gilgit -baltistan police by the respondent no. to vide notification dated ... which is also reproduced as under: page no. igp -() dated the 4th april, government of pakistan office of the inspector genera of police northern areas, gilgit. office order. consequent his posting on deputation from asf to na police as dsp vide ministry of ka na notification no. dy. na -iii cs dated 24th february, .e.f. ... the officer named above will remain posted as protocol officer to the minister ka na islamabad. --sd-- inspector general of police northern area s, gilgit. he also contends that according to estacode and ervice rules a deputationist cannot be absorbed during deputation period. he further submits that after three () years of his illegal absorption in police as dsp the services of the respondent no. maneuvered and placed his services on deputation at the disposal of the federal investigating agency (fia) vide notification no. estt (fia) dated .., which is reproduced as under: to be published in the gazette of pakistan (part -ii). government of pakistan ministry of interior islamabad, the 10th september, notification no. -estt (fia). consequent upon approval of the competent authority, i.e. secretary interior, the services of deputy superint endent of police (bs -), gilgit -baltistan police department, are hereby placed at the disposal of fia on eputation basis, on standard terms and conditions, for his further posting as assistant director (b s-) fia, in gilgit -baltistan. --sd-- (khizar saleem khokhar section officer fia (estt) the learned counsel for the petitioner referred estacode rules i.e. chapter of transfer and deputation i.e. si no. page explanation of term deputation si no. of government servants -period of deputation, si no. -a delegation of power in regard to deputation of government serv ants, si no. deputation of government servant, si no. absorption of appointment. which are reproduced as under: si. explanation of the term deputationist deputation in pakistan: c.r.r. an officer is said to be in on deputation when is detached on special temporary duty for the performance of which there is no permanently or temporary sanctioned appointment. according to the practice in vogue, a government servant begins to be regarded as a deputationist when he is appointed or transferred, through the process of selection, to a post in a department or service altogether different from the one to which he permanently belongs, he continues to be placed in this category so long as he holds the new post in an officiating or a tempor ary capacity but cease to be regarded as such either on confirmation in the new post or on reversion to his substantive post. si no. deputation of government servants -period of deputation. maximum period of deputation: in continuation of establishme nt divisions circular d.o. letter no. i -r-i (a) -- (annex), conveying the directives of the prime minister requiring the period of appointment to be clearly specified in each case of contract, secondment or deputation, the following policy is laid down for deputation of government servants: i. the normal period of deputation for all categories of government servants would be three years. this would be extendable by two years with the prior approval of the competent authority. ii. all cases of initia deputation of government servants holding posts in bps- and above would be referred to the establishment division for approval of the competent authority. the initial deputation in the case of government servants holding posts in bps and below would be approved by the secretary of the administrative concerned head of the department not below bps -. iii. the competent authority to grant extension in deputation beyond the initial period of three years, would be as below: page a. government servants in bps head of the department. b. government servants in bps to secretary of the admin. ministry head of the department not blow bps -. c. government servants in bps to secretary of the admin. ministry concerned. d. cases of government servants in bps above would be referred to establishment division. iv. on the completion of the maximum period of five years, both the borrowing and the lending organizations should ensure immedia te repatriation of the deputationist. v. in case it is not possible to repatriate a person to his parent organization for compelling reasons, the case should be referred to the establishment division before the expiry of the maximum period of five years fully explaining the circumstances due to which immediate repatriation is not possible and measures taken to obtain or groom a replacement as early as possible. the above policy would also be applicable to transfer on foreign service in terms of fr () and rules contained in chapter xii of the fundamental rules. ministers division are requested to bring these instructions to the notices of their attached departments subordinate offices corporations and autonomous bodies etc. the existing instruction on this subject issued vide estt. divisions o.m no. -d.ii (cv), dated .. (si no. and o.m. no -r-, dated .. stand modified to the above extent. si no. -a delegation of power in regard to deputation of government servants. in order to ensure expeditious proceeding of cases of deputation, the chief executive has been pleased to delegate to the secretaries of administrative ministers divisions and heads of attached departments and subordinate officers not below bps -. powers approve initial deputation of officers up to bps belonging to cadres and posts under their administrative control for a period of three years. the above powers are subject to observance of the following guidelines: i. where a post proposed to be filled in reserved under the rules departmental promotion appointment on deputation may be made only if the department certifies that no eligible person is available for promotion or the eligible person is found unfit for promotion by the appropriate dpc selection board. in such cases deputation may be approved till such time a suitable person becomes available for promotion. page ii. in case of posts reserved for initial recruitment, appointment on deputation may be made only as temporary arrangement, pending joining of the nominee of the fpsc, and subject to the condition that such appointment shall be made only after a requisition has been placed with the fpsc. iii. in cases where a post is tenable through appointment by deputation the normal period of deputation should be three years and no extension beyond three years may be allowed without prior approval of the establishment division. iv. no officer should be sent on deputation unless he has completed three years service in his parent departmen after return from an earlier deputation. si no. -b deputation of government servants. reference establishment division o.m. no. -d.ii r.i, dated .. (si no. as amended vide om of same no. dated .. (si no. -a) on the abov subject. the term deputation as defined by the supreme court of pakistan vide pld sc means that a government servant begins to be regarded as deputationist when he is appointed or transferred through the process of selection to a post in a department or service altogether different the one to which he permanently belongs, he continues to be placed in this category so long as he holds the new post in an officiating or a temporary capacity but ceased to be regarded as such either on confirmation in the new post or on reversion to his substantive post. according to the judgment of federal service tribunal in appeals no. r) (cs) (m s) liaqat ali choudhry and others federation of pakistan, upheld by the supreme ourt of pakistan, as interpreted by the law, all the incumbents who are deputed to work in an agency foreign to the service to which they belong, are entitled to draw deputation allowances. in view of the position stated above, the finance division have issued orders instructions vide their o.m. no. f. () stating that deputation allowance may be granted to all officers officials of ministries divisions departments who have been transferred and posted on deputat ion basis or under section of civil servants act to a post in a department or service altogether different from the one to which they permanently belong. in view of the above ministries divisions are advised that henceforth notifications orders is sued by them regarding the deputation of their officers officials to a department office altogether different from the one which they actually belong must invariably states that: i. the incumbent will be entitled to deputation allowance. ii. the period of deputat ion shall be three years extendable by two years, with the approval of the competent authority. si. no. deputation period -absorption of deputationists. in constitution of establishment division o.m. of even no. dated (annex), it is stated th at: i. the normal deputation period, for all categories grades of government servants shall be three years extendable for another two years with prior permission of the establishment division. a government servant shall not, however, remain on deputation to another government organization or an autonomous body corporations etc for more than five years. page ii. if a person is on deputation to a government organization, and has complete the maximum tenure of five years, he must revert or be reverted by the borrowing office to his parent lending organization of the expiry of that period, otherwise, the audit office concerned shall not make payment of salary and allowances to him beyond the date of expiry of five years, unless specifically authorized by the establishmen division. iii. if a person is on deputation to an autonomous organization corporation etc, and has completed the maximum tenure of five years, it will obligatory for that person to report back to his parent lending organization on the expiry that period irre spective of his being relieved by the borrowing corporation body etc, failure to report back unless specifically authorized otherwise by the establishment division will be construed as misconduct and make him liable to disciplinary action under the gover nment servant (efficiency and discipline rules, iv. in case a deputationist is proposed to be absorbed permanently in the borrowing office (either a government organization or a corporation etc), such a proposal shall be initiated by the borrowing offi ce atleast six months before the expiry of the deputation period of the deputationist concerned. such a proposal, with the written consent of the deputationist, shall be made by the borrowing office to the lending office (or parent office of the deputation ist) which shall convey its decisions (if necessary, in consultation with the establishment division) to the borrowing office as well as the deputationist, by the expiry of the terms of his deputation. in the event of non acceptance of the proposal, the in dividual shall revert back to his parent office as indicated at () and () above. si no. deputation not a method appointment. reference establishment division o.m. no. -d.ii r.i, dated .. (si no. ), wherein the normal period of the deputation for all categories of government servants had been fixed as three years, extendable by another two years with the prior approval of the competent authority. under the said instruction secretaries of the ministries divisions concerned were a uthorized to grant extension in deputation period beyond the initial period of three years in respect of government servants holding posts bps to bps -. it has been observed, however, that there is growing tendency to resolve to postings through dep utationist despite the fact that deputation is not a normal prescribed method of appoint as under the civil servants (appointment, promotion and transfer) rule three methods of appointments are required to page be made either by promotion or by initial appointment or by transfer. the method of appointment to post is also described in the recruitment rules. filling up the posts through deputation, if not provided so in the recruitment rules, leads to following adverse implications: (i). in case of prom otion posts, the promotions of departmental personnel are delayed stopped. (ii). in case the post is required to be filled through initial appointment, quota of a particular province is affected. in order to bring the deputation policy in conformity wit the present policy of postings and transfers circulated vide establishment division o.m. no. -r-, dated .., (si no. and also to discourage the increasing tendency of posting through deputation, it has been decided that, in future, he deputation period will be limited to three years only. a maximum two years extension in the deputation period will be considered only in exceptional cases, in the public interest, and with the prior approval of the establishment division in all cases government servants in bps and above. the extension cases shall be forwarded to the establishment division atleast six months before the expiry of the three -year deputation period and with proper justification for the proposal. however, no deputation pro posals will be entertained which will adversely affect the method of appointment to the post as laid own in the recruitment rules. accordingly all such proposals must invariably be accompanied by a formal assurance signed by atleast the joint secretary (a dmin) to that affect. ministries divisions are requested to also bring these instructions to the notice of their attached department, subordinate offices, corporations, autonomous bodies, etc, under their administrative control, for guidance strict compli ance. it may pleased be noted that arrangements have been made in consultation with the auditor general office whereby payment of emoluments etc, to those on deputation will be stopped forthwith, immediately following the completion of the three years de putation period, unless the establishment division prior approval has been obtained and conveyed to the concerned audit circle. the existing instructions on this subject issued vide establishment division o.m. no. -d.ii r.i, dated .. (s i no. ), stand modified to the above extent. page the learned counsel for the petitioner also contends that the placement of the services of the respondent no. at the disposal of fia was also illegal and against the law and service rules as he was on deputation at gilgit -baltistan police on standard terms and conditions and before the expiry of the said period his services again placed at the disposal of another department was illegal and without lawful authority. a deputationist cannot be given another deputation before expiry of the first deputation period. the same illegality was also pointed out by the respondent no. to and they consequently issued an order recalling his deputation. consequently, he was repatriated as inspector (bps -) to his arent department on .., which is also reproduced as below: government of gilgit -baltistan the department of services and general administration gilgit -baltistan secretariat, gilgit. dated the 25th april, .. notification no. so(s) -i-() whereas, inspector (bps -) of aviation wing, ministry of defense was posted to police department gilgit -baltistan on deputation basis without following rules regulations vide ka na division, islamabad notification no. dy. na -iii cs dated --. whereas, on 20th november, the said inspector (bs -) was adjusted in police department, gilgit -baltistan without following all codal formalities and rules in vogue and against the judgment of the whereas, under the -- was repatriated back to his parent depa rtment vide ministry of interior, islamabad notification no. -ict dated --. whereas, -d16 has illegally been sent on deputation to fia and retained the seniority in police department gb. whereas, the polic department has conveyed the following irregularities: i).- in the aviation wing ministry of defense ii)- his posting on deputation to gb police against the post of dsp (bps -) was illegal. page iii)-the officer has been allowed bps without proper promotion through dpc which is against the appointment, promotion and transfer rules, rule -a of the said rules provides that no promotion on regular basis shall be made to posts in bps- and above, unless the officer has completed such length of service, attended such training and passed departmental examinations. iv)-the following training courses are mandatory in the police department gb for promotion to higher posts as prescribe in chapeter of police rules a)- inter class course probation course of six months duration. b)- upper class course of six months duration. c)- advance course. whereas, the police department gb has never given any noc for deputation or absorption of and whereas, after thorough examination the absorption, deputation and adjustment of an officer of bs against a post of bs has been found to be irregular. now, therefore, on the recommendation of inspector ge neral of police, gilgit baltistan vide no. igp -() dated 13th may the competent authority has been pleased to cancel the absorption of bs of aviation wing islamabad in police department, gilgit -baltistan in bs -, as well as deputation in fia is also withdrawn as both orders are null and void ab -initio. bs is hereby repatriated as inspector (bs -) in aviation wing of ministry of defense, rawalpindi, with immediate effect. the competen authority has further been pleased to order an inquiry against the illegal absorption and deputation as well as ordered the recovery of excess pay drawn while the officer was in bs -. --sd-- deputy secretary (services) he continuous his arguments and submitted that the airport security force (asf) authorities have not accepted the services of the respondent no. and the said respondent feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said repatriation order filed writ pe tition no. in learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan which was accepted. the impugned notification no. so (s) -- () dated .. issued by respondent no. was declared illegal. he was entitled to continue his service as deputy superinte ndent of police under notification no. c.m. sectt. () dated .. and also declared for his all back page benefits if have not been allowed by the respondent including his seniority as on ... he further submits that the deputationist cannot be adjusted and merged into regular service within two months against any vacant post depriving the incumbents officers of police department waiting for their promotion thereto. while saying so he relied upon various reported judgment of the contempt proceedings against the chief secretary sindh others (alongwith others dozen of clubbed petitions) reported as scmr he particularly referr ed para-, para of the said reported judgment which are reproduced as under: para-. shahid hussain mahessar, who came on deputation from i.b in in though he was repatriated under the orders of the court to i.b in his case the sindh government has furnished comments stating therein that in the year his services were placed at the disposal of sindh government and he was posted as adigp special branch sindh, karachi. he was recommended for absorption by addle. aid special branch si ndh. in the year vide notification dated .. his deputation was cancelled withdrawn. he filed a constitutional petition in the high court of sindh and obtained status -quo order. thereafter the said officer was appointed and transferred as sp (bps -) in sindh police on ... there is no mention as to how he was granted bps para-. shiraz asghar shaikh came from pemra in sindh police on deputation in the year on the desire of the chief minister sindh. he was appointed as dsp. how ever, in the year he was recommended for absorption in police department. in his case, the sindh government in its comments has stated that at the desire of chief minister sindh his services were placed at the disposal of sindh government in for a period of three years. thereafter he was posted in sind police. his case was placed before a committee for absorption in sind police. his notification of absorption was cancelled withdrawn. how ever, he filed constitutional petition before sindh high co urt wherein his order of repatriation was suspended and he was allowed to continue in sind police till further orders. the sindh high court ordere for issuance of his formal notification of absorption. the home department has absorbed him on .. i pursuance of the court order extending him the benefit of the impugned legislation without page examining the effect of orders of this court for his repatriation to the parent department. para-. for the aforesaid reasons we allow constitution petitions no. and of and dispose of all the misc. applications and hold that the impugned legislations mentioned in pare are violative of the provisions of the constitution discussed hereinabove. we further hold and declare that benefit of absorption extended by the sindh government since with or without backdated seniority, are declared ultra vires of the constitution, as the learned additional advocate general had made a statement during hearing that the im pugned validation instruments have granted legal cover to the employees civil servants, who were absorbed since likewise, we further hold and declare that all out of turn promotions made under section -a of the sindh civil servants act, by he sindh government to an employee or civil servant with or without backdated seniority since .. where section -a was inserted through ordinance iv of are ultra vires of the constitution. all misc applications made by the absorbees in which interim order were this court dated .. stand vacated. we also hold that all the re -employment re -hiring of the retired civil government servants under the impugned instrument being violative of the constitution are declared nullity. we fu rther direct that the nominations made by the chief minister in exercise of the quota given by rule ()(b) of the west pakistan civil service (executive branch) rules, are without lawful authority and all the nominees (assistant commissioners) ar reverted to their original positions the learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that the respondent no. in collusion with the administration of gilgit -baltistan government high ups and due to political influence successfully maneu vered illegally absorbing himself in police department in the next grade bps as dsp in regular police department. he further submits that after disposing writ petition no. and writ petition no. by the learned chief court, he has managed and maneuvered not to file the the said impugned judgment s. the petitioner were not impleaded deliberately so that he may achieve his goal in designed manners. he prays that both the impugned judgments be set aside as the same are not sust ainable. he also repeated that in past writ petition no. was filed by police inspectors namely page rajab ali. wherein, the petitioner being most senior inspectors entitled for promotion to next higher grades and prayed that the respondent no. while joint on deputation who was holding post of inspector bps- in air port security force which is a clear disregard to the approved rules circulated on .. depriving the petitioner from their promotion. he further submits that it was arrayed in the light of established rule that the respondent no. was not eligible for transfer to gb police who was serving as inspecto in bps in airport security force. he also submits that the notification of the respondent no. was also unlawful being contrary to the provisions of federal government deputation rules it is also contended that in the said petition by the peti tioners inspectors of police department that the functioning and the set up of the police department northern areas are governed by punjab police rules which have formally been extended to northern areas vide notification dated .. and as provi ded in appendix -. of the said rules wherein not more than of vacancies will be filled in by direct recruitment and remaining posts will be filled through promotion from amongst the inspectors. however, the learned chief court upon hearing vide .., the petition of the police inspectors was dismissed holding that since the respondent no. has already been adjusted against the said post under direct quota as such no service rights of the police inspectors petitioner ha ve been jeopardized. page the learned counsel for the petitioner reiterated that it was provided under the estacode that a person, who is transferred and appointed on deputation must be a government servant, and such transfer should be made through the process of selection. the borrowing government has to establish the exigency in the first place and then the person who is being trans ferred placed on deputation in government must have matching qualifications and expertise in the field with required experience. in absence of these conditions, the government cannot appoint anyone by transfer or deputation. he also contends that locus poe nitentiae is the power of receding till a decisive step is taken, but it is not a principle of law that order once passed becomes irrevocable and past and closed transaction. if the order is illegal, then perpetual rights cannot be gained on the basis of a illegal order. he further submits that the respondent no. maneuvered himself adjusted in bps on the clear post of dsp without application of the criteria laid down in law by way of underhand means or by any mode other than merit, cannot get protect ion of such benefit on the principle of locus poenitentiae, unless he could show that the benefit avail by him was in accordance with law, in good faith and without any ulterior motives of mala fide. while submitting so he relied upon case of farhat abbas i -g and others scmr relates to the out of tern promotion in the police department. the order was recalled by the authority assigning valid reasons to differentiate and to follow the parameters of reward on page account of bravery and gallantry as well as appreciation for performance of duty diligently but with due regard to the extent of such appreciation to commensurate with the degree of merit involved. undoubtedly performance of duty with due diligence and efficiently deserves due appreciati on but it cannot be over appreciated out of proportion so as to make out case a grievance to the other employees in service of the department. if a case of glaring favouritism is made out resulting in a malafide action as in the instant matter, it has to rectified in accordance with law to avoid any injustice. such a valid order cannot be set aside merely on conjectures or surmises as such practice would encourage a person to obtain any order using underhand means or otherwise and then claims immunity fo such acts which would, therefore, result in rewarding the person using such means by allowing him to continue to enjoy fruits of such ill -gotten gains thus, perpetuate injustice. he also submits that the deputationists were not qualified to hold the posts against which they were working. he continues his argument while stating that the government shall refrain from issuing posting orders of any non -cadre officer to a cadre post by transfer under section of the civil servants act, nor shall it depute by transfer any officer from occupational group of the federal government or from autonomous body in the government except in exigency unless the deputationist meets the criteri a of matching qualifications, eligibility and experience to the proposed post. he further submits that the absorption of respondent no. page in higher grade in police department reflects political consideration as he cannot be absorbed within thirty nine days against the rules, law and merit. he also contends that the constitution of pakistan provides protection to every citizen to life and liberty. the term life and liberty used in this article is very significant as it covers all the facets of human existence. the term life has not been defined in the constitution, but it does not mean nor can it be restricted only to the vegetative or animal life or mere existence from conception to death. the inhabitation against its deprivation extends to all those limbs and faculties by which life is enjoyed. the term life includes reputation status and all other ancillary privileges which the law confers on the citizen. he submits that a civil servant is fully protected under article of the constitution who cannot be deprived of his right of reputation, status and opportunity of the promotions in next grade. he lastly submits that the absorption of the respondent no. who was serving as inspector bps in airport security force cannot be absorbed in a higher grade on deputation depriving other police officers petitioner in line under section of civil servants act, but he can be posted in a higher grade foe a period of three years on temporary basis. such absorption within thirty nine () days after assuming charge on deputation would not only be unconstitutional without undertaking competitive and transparent process but would also deprive the seniority and progression of career of the meritorious police inspectors petitioners. he submits page that the illegal absorption gilgit -baltistan government not a perpetual right of the respondent no. gained on the basis of an illegal order. he prays that both the judgments in writ petition no. and chief court gilgit -baltistan be set aside being not sustainable. on the other han d, the learned counsel for the respondent no. submits that the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is well founded and in accordance with the service rules and law, which has rightly been the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan. he further submits that the petitioner was a permanent employee in the a irport security force in bps and he was performing his duties efficiently. later on his services were transferred to gilgit baltistan police on deputation basis for three years and subsequently, he has been absorbed in gilgit -baltistan police on permanent footing correctly in line with the service deputation rules and there is no embargo to absorb a deputationist on permanent basis against a clear vacant post of deputy superintendent of police. he supports the impugned which according to him has been passed rightly and no interference is warranted in to it to meet the ends of justice. he also referred the judgment passed in writ petition no. filed by the five inspectors of police wherein the absorption of the respondent no. was challenged. the learned chief court was page pleased to dismiss the same being meritless and absorption of the respondent no. was held in accordance with law which holds the field. we have heard both the learned counsel for the respective parties at length, perused the record and gone through the impugned judgment in writ petition no. and writ petition no. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan and the impugned notification dated .. issued by the respondent no. as well as the case law relied upon by the learned counsel for he petitioners. the case law referred by the learned counsel for the petitioner support his contentions. in our considered view the absorption of respondent no. was illegal, without lawful authority and ultra vires to the service laws and rules which is not tenable. consequently, we accepted the appeal vide our short .. and set aside both the impugned .. in writ petition no. and .. in writ petition no. the learned chief cour gilgit -baltistan. consequent thereto, the impugned notification no. so(s) –i-() dated .. issued by the respondent no. was maintained. the respondent no. .e. airport se curity force forthwith. consequently, the connected petition i.e. cpla no. titled babar khan tahira yasub others was dismissed and the page leave to appeal was refused. these were the reasons for our short ... the appeal is accepted. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?