page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. under objection no. in cr.pla no. tahir iqbal others petitioners. abdul ghaffar and another respondents. present: date of hearing: ... order this petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in cr. pla no. this court whereby the said cr. pla is disposed off with the directions to the petitioner to file proper application alongwith compromise affidavit for an appropriate order, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that complainant party does not want to prosecute and prolong the case due to compromise by the intervention of the notables of the vicinity. he also submits that both the parties belong to district astore and some ladies are also involved in the case and their statement is also required to be recorded before the trial court, hence, it is feasible for the parties to appear before the learned session court at astore instead of the learned anti -terrorism page court. he further submits that the learned chief court has already transferred the case to learned sessions -terrorism act, has also been deleted on the directives of the learned chief court vide ... he prays that this .. this apex court. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the materials on record and gone though the impugned .. this court. the perusal of the record transpires that this review petition has been filed against a compromise deed affected between the parties which has been disposed -off by this court vide the impugned orde dated ... this review petition is not maintainable as the same has been filed against a compromise deed. secondly, the review petition is also under objection on the ground that -on-record for the petitioner at the time of hearing of the original petition, hence, he cannot appear in this case on behalf of the petitioner under order xxvi rule of this court. as per the said rule except with th special leave of the court, no application for review shall be entertained unless it is drawn by the advocate who appeared at the hearing of the case in page which the judgment or the order, sought to be reviewed, was made. nor shall any advocate, except such advocate, be heard in support of the application for review, unless the court has dispensed with the requirement aforesaid it is an admitted fact that he, theref ore, could not appear in the review petition as of right. in view of the above discussions and in our considered view, this review petition is not maintainable. consequently, we dismiss this petition by maintaining the impugned .. this court. the petitioner are directed to appear in the anti -terrorism court at gilgit in pursuance of our aforementioned order. the petition is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.