page in the upreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal. no. in cr. pla. no. the state petitioner. haider son of jahangir chamogarh tehsil district gilgit. respondent. present:- the advocate general for the petitioner state. johar ali khan advocate- on-record on behalf of the respondent. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment:- .. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in cr. misc. no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court whereby the anti narcotics force was directed for re-opening of the investigation of the case treating the fir chalked out by anti narcotics force by directing the trial court to retu rn the challan, if the same is presented by the normal police, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal. consequently, notice was issued to the respondent and the case was, however, heard on ... upon hearing we allowed this criminal appeal by setting aside the impugned order page dated .. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court. briefly facts of the case are that on .. at about pm jutial police station during its routine checking intercepted an ncp car bearing no. dmr and during search found a black brief case and recovered kg heroin from the said brief case. on inquiry the accused respondent admitted ownership of the brief case and the recovered heroin powder was weighed in presence of witness es and found kg. the sample of gram from each packet was extracted for chemical examination and the remaining was sealed in presence of witness es. consequently, fir no. dated .. was registered against the respondent under (c) the control of narcotic substances act, the accused was arrested and after completion of investigation, the challan was submitted before the learned special judge (cnsa vacations sessions during the investigation, the respondent accused filed a bail petition before the learned special judge (cnsa vacations sessions ... whereafter on transfer of case the respondent filed bail application before the learned sessions ... later on the respondent accused filed cr. misc. no. 2016before the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court which upon hearing was dismissed by page directing the anti narcotics force to re-open of the investigation the case, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that it is a day light offence and the police has registered the fir against the respondent promptly, the respondent accused prima facie was involved in the trafficking of the heroin. the learned advocate general submits that the legal questions raised by the petitioner state during the hearing of cr. misc. no. bef ore the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court which have not been considered by the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court. he also submits that sections of the control of narcotic substances act, empowers the police to take cognizance of the said offence and to investigate the same. similarly section ppc also empowers the police to arrest any person in cognizable offences. he further submits that under section () cr. pc no one can question regarding the investigation conducted by the police in such cases. he submits that the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court fell in error by directing the anti narcotics force for re- opening the investigation of the case. he submits that the investigation of the said case has already been conducted by the police and nothing remains for re-investigation in this case. he submits that the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court has relied upon the .. in cr. misc. no. this apex court whereby it was held that police has no powers to take cognizance and investigate the offence falling under page the control of narcotic substances act, he further submits that the said judgment is required to be revisited in order to resolv this controversy. he referred sro (i) dated .. issued on .. which empowers the other various agencies including police to take cognizance of case and investigate thereto. the said sro is reproduced as under:- s.r.o. (i) dated ..- in exercise of the powers conferred by subsection () of section of the control of narcotic sub stances act, (xxv of and in supersession of its notification no. s.r.o (i) dated .., the federal government is pleased to authorized the members not below the rank of sub- inspector of equivalent of the anti narcotics force, provincial excise and police departments. inspector or equivalent of the custom department and subedar in the frontier corps in the province of the baluchistan and the north -west frontier, sub-inspector of equivalent of pakistan rangers (sindh), inspector or equivalent of pakistan rangers (punjab), naib subedar or equivalent of pakistan coast guards and to the officers of maritime security not below the rank of chief petty officer to exercise the powers and perform the function under the aforesaid section and sections () of the said act within the areas of their respective jurisdiction the learned advocate general further submits that the condition laid down for the investigation officer who investigates the case must not be below the rank of sub-inspector (si). he also submits that in case the investigation is conducted by an assistant sub-inspector (asi) of police that would be an irregularity which is curable under section cr. pc. in supports of his contentions, page the learned advocate general relied upon a reported case of the state abdali shah reported as scmr he prays that the impugned .. passed in cr. misc. no. by the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court may graciously be set aside being not sustainable. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned .. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court. he contends that under section (c) of the control of narcotic substances act, the police has neither powers to take cognizance in narcotic cases and insert provisions of control of narcotics substances act in the fir(s) registered by them, nor the police can investigate or file the challan thereto in the courts of law established under the act he also contends that the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court has rightly held that the normal police have no authority to conduct investigation of the cases registered under the control of narcotic substances act, he stresses that the law of control of narcotic substances is a special law which provides special mechanism for investigation of the occurrences falling under the said law, therefore, the registration of fir and the conduct of investigation by the normal police is unlawful, illegal and without jurisdiction. he contends that the impugned .. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court may pleased be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. page we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court. we have also gone through the case laws and sro (i) dated ..- so relied upon by the learned advocate general, substantiates that the other various agencies includi ng police have powers to take cognizance and to conduct the investigation of the offences fall under the control of narcotic substances act, thereto. in view of the above discussions, we allowed this criminal appeal vide our short ... consequently, the impugned .. in criminal misc. no. the learned gilgit-baltistan chief court was set aside. the case be remitted to the learned special judge (cns) at gilgit for trial of the accused person. we hold that in pursuance of the sro () dated .., the po lice officers have powers to take cognizance and investigate the offences falling under the control of narcotics substances act, the bail granting .. passed in bail application by the special these were the reasons for our short ... the learned trial court was directed to hear and decide the case expeditiously within a period of six () months. in case any delay is caused on the part of the accused persons, the page prosecution would be at liberty to move application for cancellation of bail granted to accused in circumstances. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?