page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. c. misc. no. cpla. no. the agriculture department others petitioners. haji juma shah respondent. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the petitioners. rehmat ali advocate -on-record on behalf of the re spondent. date of hearing: ... order. the learned advocate general submits that the respondent defendant filed a civil suit against the petitioner in the court of learned civil whereby the suit of the petitioner was disposed off on the basis of side inspection of the civil ... the respondent being aggrieved filed civil first appeal no. before the learned additional district ... consequently, the judgment decree dated .. the learned civil he further submits that being aggrieved the parties filed separate appeals before the learned additional district of the present petitioner was accepted by granting a decree of kanal and marla of the land and the appeal no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed vide judgment decree dated ... he also submits that the parties being aggrieved filed civil 2nd appeal no. and respectively before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. who upon hearing dismissed the petition being devoid of any merit vide ... consequently, the impugned .. the learned additional district .. of the learned civil the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. the learne advocate general finally submits that the impugned .. of learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgments orders the courts below are the result of misconception of law and facts, hence, the same are required to be set aside. on the other hand, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent support the impugned judgment .. of the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgments decrees of the first appellate court. he conte nds that the impugned judgment of the learned chief court as well as the page judgment of first appellate court are well reasoned and has been passed in accordance with law and no interference is warranted. we have heard the learned counsel for respective par ties at length, perused the record of case file and gone through the impugned .. the learned chief court as well as the judgments dec rees the courts below and in our considered view the judgment the lear ned first appellate court as well as impugned judgment the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court are well founded. resultantly, this petition is converted into an appeal and the same is dismissed. the learned trial court is required to hear and de cide the case on its merit expeditiously within a period of three () months as directed by the learned additional district .. passed in civil revision no. the petition is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge.