page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla. no. the state petitioner. bilal ahmed others respondent s. present: the advocate general alongwith -on-record for the petitioner. johar ali khan advocate -on-record on behalf of the respondent s. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this petition has been arisen out of the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court whereby the impugned .. of anti-terrorism court was set aside and the case of the respondent was sent for trial in the court of competent jurisdiction i.e. the learned sessions the petitioner being aggrieved filed this petit ion for leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case was heard today on ... briefly facts of the case are that a criminal case was registered at police station jutial gilgit regarding escape of a page convict offender of death sentence namely arifudin alongwith another under trial accused shakirullah khan from cheetah jail jutial gilgi t, under sections ppc read with section () -l and section of the anti -terrorism act against the respondent who were reportedly on duty on the day of occurrence. the convicts respondent faced trial before ata where the prosecution managed to adduce pws and after examining them under section cr. pc. the accused did not opt to record their statements under section cr. pc and to produce witnesses in their favour. the learned trial court convicted the responden no. imprisonment for years in offences under section ppc respectively and years under section (h) of ata while the other accused respondent were awarded sentence for year under section ppc and a fine of rs. each with another period of further six () months imprisonment in case of default. the learned advocate general appearing on behalf of the petitioner submits that the accused respondent were on duty with the prisoners in cheetah jail. he also submits that the lock of the barrack was opened by accused mohsin iqbal in the morning in front of pw (prisoner) waqas ahmed. he submits that accused mohsin iqbal in his confessional statement recorded under section ata has accepted to have done the same on the basis of religious association with escaped prisoners. he further submits that the this case falls under the jurisdiction of the learned special page court i.e. the learned anti -terrorism court gilgit who has rightly convicted the respondent accused for their negligence in escaping the high profile criminals from cheetah jail jutial gilgit. he also submits that the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court fell in error while passing the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. which is not tenable being passed contrary to the law and facts of the case. he referred section ()(i) of the anti -terrorism act according to the learned advocate general this case falls under the jurisdiction of the anti -terrorism act. on the other hand, .. in criminal appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. he contends that the chief court has rightly set aside the judgmen of the learned anti -terrorism court which was not sustainable being passed without jurisdiction as the special law does not attract in this case. he prayed that the impugned judgment of the learned chief court may graciously be maintained. we have eard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the jud gment dated .. the learned anti -terrorism court no. ii gilgit -baltistan. we have also page gone through the relevant provisions of the anti -terrorism act we are in agreement with the findings of the learned gilgit baltistan chief court as provisions of section of the anti- terrorism act do not attracts applicable in this case. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has rightly held that the case is triable under the ordinary jurisdiction of the competent court of law i.e. the learned sessions court gilgit. furthermore, the learned advocate general could not point out any illegality infirmity in the impugned judgment which in our considered view is well reasoned and well founded. in view of the above discussions, we dismis this appeal. consequently, the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is affirmed. the learned sessions court gilgit is required to hear and dispose the case in its own merits without being influe nced by the observations, if any, of this court or by the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?