page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at gilgit cr. p.l.a. no. chief judge. -ud-din, judge. judge. the state petitioner appellant huzarat hussain rawan darial dostrict diamer. respondent accused cherges under section and vide f.i.r. no. -ao vide f.i.r no. dated -- p.s. darial district diamer. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance order) against the impugned -- the single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan in cr. whereby the single bench chief court has accepted bail petition of the accused respondent. for setting aside the impugned order decision of single bench of the chief court dated -- by converting this leave to appeal into appeal and justice, law and equity. present: advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the petitioner. advocate for the respondent. date of hearing: --. order raja jalal -ud-din, this leave to appeal has been preferred against the pas sed by learned single -baltistan, whereby application filed under section cr. p.c for the grant post arrest bail was accepted and the respondent accused was ordered to be released on bail. page the fact, in short, giving ris to file this petition are that a case f.i.r no. dated --, was registered with police station darrel u p.p.c for an occurrence which had taken place on --. the case was registered at the instance of bismillah against hazarat hussain respondent herein for causing the murder of mehoob ullah and muhammad ullah, who was challaned to face the trial. during the cours of investigation accused was arrested on --. the respondent moved a post arrest bail petition in the court of sessions the petition was dismissed vide the learned sessions judge. he, thereafter, moved a post attest bail petition in the chief court gilgit -baltistan, which came up for hearing in the court of earned single --, ence this petition. the learned advocate general, gilgit -baltistan as well as counsel for the respondent have been heard and perused the record. admittedly the trial of the res pondent was being conducted by the court constituted under the juvenile just ice system ordinance of the respondent was arrested on the examination of the record and the statement made by the learned counsel of respondent at bar indicates that the statements of all the prosecution witnesses have been recorded and the next date of hearing for the recording of statement of accused u cr. p.c. is fixed. it means that the trial is almost concluded. the learned advocate general in an answ er to question as to whether the respondent has misused the concession of bail. he could not po int out any thing from the record. the grounds for the grant of post arrest bail are absolutely different that of cancellation of bail. the perusal of the record transpires that the respondent has not misuse the concession of bail at all and no ground, at this stage of the case, is made out to cancel the bail already granted to him. page he remained in attendance before the court on each and every date of hearing. on the receipt of challan of this case the same was entrusted ot the learned additional session the learned counsel for the respondent made an application stating therein that the accused is juvenile and case is exclusively triabl by the learned sessions judge. in view of this the matter was referred to the chief court gilgit -baltistan for necessary order. the case was accordingly transferred to the session court diamer for trial. it is no body case that the trial has not been onducted by the court constituted under juvenile even otherwise the in -hand case is time barred by fourteen days days) for which the learned advocate general gilgit baltistan has not given any plausible reason to condone the same. on the other hand a valuable right has accrued in -favour of the respondent which can not be taken away without any cogent reason. the law helps the vigilant and not the indolent. the learned advocate general has not made an application fo condonation of the delay. the respondent has also been declared juvenile by the corut of competent jurisdiction and as per his record date of birth of respondent was at the time of commission of offence. he was at that time thirteen years, seven months nineteen days old. without dilating upon the merits and demerits of the case lest it may cause prejudice to the case of either of the party. since the case in hand is concluded before the trial court and judgmen is likely to be given wit hin the shortest possible time. in this view of the matter no case for the cancellation of bail is made out. page in view of what has been discussed above the judgment -- impugned herein does not suffer from any illegality or infirmity. th petition is merit -less and the same is dismissed. chief