page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. cr. pla no. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. the state petitioner. shams -ur-rehman abdul aziz yadgar muhallah gilgit respondent accused. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance order, against the .. the division bench of chief court gilgit baltistan in cr. appeal no. whereby appeal of petitioner has been dismissed holding the same meritless and maintained the impugned acquittal .. the anti terrorism court no. gilgit -baltistan. by converting this leave to appeal into appeal and accepting the appeal this .. in cr. appeal no. and order judgment date .. the atc court page no. gb in atc no. and converting this leave to appeal into appeal and accepting the appeal for ends of present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. date of hearing: --. judgment. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan contends that a criminal case vide fir no. under section ppc read with anti -terrorism act, was registered against the respondent accused on the application of one muhammad ismail. he further contended that during the investigation of the case, the crime weapon was effected on the pointation of the respondent accused and another fir no. was also registered against the respondent accused under section arm ordinance. he also contended that the prosecution after completion of investigation submitted the challan before the learned trial court i.e. anti -terrorism court gilgit -baltistan. the pistol page was recovered from the accused on his pointation. the recovered pistol and crime empties were sent to ballistic expert and as per fsl report it matched with the crime empties, it is a fit case for conviction. on the contrary, the learned trial court vide .., acquitted the accused from charges. the petitioner eing aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned judgment filed cr. appeal before the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. upon hearing the learned chief court vide impugned order .. not only maintained the impugned judgme nt of learned trial court but also imposed diyat on state for defective investigation instead of taking action against investigating officer (io) under section of anti -terrorism act he also contended that there are four witnesses who support the rosecution case. whereas, crime empties were also recovered from the place of incident matched fired from the pistol recovered from the home of respondent accused on his pointation, which is admissible under section of qanoon -e-shahadat. the learned ad vocate general gilgit candidly admitted that there is neither any eye witness of the case nor independent or private witnesses associated with the recovery of the pistol on the page pointation of respondent accused from his house. he concluded his arguments hat on the basis of the above contentions the impugned .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan in cr. appeal no. as well as the judgment of the learned trial court dated .. requires to set aside as both the judgments orders have been passed without considering the evidence of prosecution witnesses (pws) and other circumstantial evidences as well other corroborated evidence available on the record of the case. we have heard the learned advocate general gilgit baltistan, perused the material of the case file and gone through the impugned .. of the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan as well the .. the learned trial court. in our considered view, he learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan could not point out any infirmity and illegality in both the judgments of the courts below. he very candidly admitted that there is no eye witnesses, recovery of pistol not affected in presence of independent wi tnesses from the house of the accused. the matching of empties fired from recovered page pistol lost its evidentiary value, hence, such recovery cannot be believed rather become doubtful. in this view of the above discussion, we are not inclined to grant eave. the leave is refused. both the impugned judgments dated .., the leaved chief court gilgit -baltistan and the learned trial court .. are maintained. the leave refused. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?