page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr.pla no. the state petitioner. doulat mir another respondents. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith -on-record for the petitioner. ur-rehman advocate and on-record for respondents. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal petition has arisen out of the impugned in cr. revision no. the learned chief court whereby the cr. revision filed by the respondent was dismissed by transferring the case from the court of learned anti -terrorism court no to the court of learned session the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to he respondent and the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that an fir no. was registered in police station city gilgit under section ppc against the accused respondent on the charge of murder of page deceased safeer son qalam sher while opening indiscriminate firing in a public place which created fear and terror in the locality. subsequently sections of the anti -terrorism act, were added by the learned anti -terrorism court. during investigation police recovere fire arms from the respondent and also registered fir under section arm ordinance, against the respondent accused. the challan was submitted on .. in the learned trial court i.e. anti -terrorism court at gilgit. during trial of the case, the respondent accused filed application under section of anti -terrorism act, in the learned trial court contending therein that the case be transferred from anti -terrorism court to any other court of ordinary jurisdictio as the alleged offence committed by the respondent was not an act of terrorism. upon hearing the learned anti -terrorism court at gilgit dismissed the said application holding that the act of the respondent accused created sense of fear and insecurity i the minds of the public and the same fall within the ambit of sections of anti -terrorism act, the respondent accused being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the judgment of the learned trial court filed criminal revision no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was accepted by transferring the case from anti-terrorism court to the sessions .., hence, this leave to appeal. page the learned advocate general inter-alia submits that section of the anti-terrorism act, itself provides powers to the special -terrorism court to decide as to whether the offence is triable by himself or the same is to be transferred to the ordinary court of jurisdiction. he also submits that the learned -terrorism court has decided to try the case itself which prima facie shows that the provisions of of the anti -terrorism act, were attracted. per learned advocate general, the alleged offence has been committed in an open public place in front of the sessions court, the civil courts and to the chief court which has created fear and sense of insecurity in the general public, litigants, judges, lawyers within and outside of the courts premises. he adds that this act of the respondent for opening indiscriminatory firing created fear and sense of insecurity in the minds of general public which attracts the provision of section of the anti -terrorism act, he submits that the lear ned chief court fell in error to consider the above facts and has itself assumed that the murder in question was allegedly committed by the respondent on personal enmity. he reiterates that the learned chief court observed that offence inserted under section of the anti -terrorism act, has no nexus with the provisions of special law. the provisions of section of the anti -terrorism act, was ordered to be deleted by holding that the case is exclusive ly triable by the courts of ordinary jurisdiction. per learned advocate general, the case page was ordered to be withdrawn from the court of special -terrorism court and the same be transferred to the learned sessions he submits that the observations of the learned chief court in circumstances are not tenable in law. he prays that the impugned order the learned chief court may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, -ur-rehman advocate appearing on behalf of the respondent supports that impugned order the learned chief court. they contend that section of the anti-terrorism act, is not attracted in the instant occurrence and the murder was neither sectarian nor the alleged offence is committed in a manners which created terror and sense of insecurity in the general public. he reiterates the case in hand is one of personal enmity as such there is no fear or insecurity created in the minds of general public which is not an act of terrorism. they submit that the learned chief court has rightly transferred the case to the learned sessions they pray that the impugned order the learned chief court may pleased be maintain ed. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned order the learned chief court. in our considered view, the impugned order the learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded, page hence, no indulgence is warranted into it by this court. further, the learned advocate general could not point out any illegality or infirmity i the impugned order. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. in cr. revision no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.