page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan cr. p.l.a no. chief judge. judge. judge. the state petitioner muhammad azam mir nabi jagir basin. jumma din janiya bargo paine. khan baz sheate bargo paine district gilgit. respondent .. of chief court gilgit -baltistan, whereby the -baltistan in the case fir no. dated .. police station city. present: advocate general gilgit -baltistan for petitioner. malik haq nawaz advocate for respondents. date of hearing: -- judgment muhammad nawaz abbasi, cj: this leave to appeal has been filed by the state through advocate general gilgit -baltistan against the -- the chief court in a state criminal appeal filed by the state whereby the chief court maintaining the order of trial court regarding payment of diyat to the legal heirs of deceased by the state dismissed the appeal. the short facts giving rise to this petition are that muhammad azam and two other respondent herein were tried in a case registered against the under section ppc at police station city, gilgit and having been found not guilty have been acquitted. the case was registered on the report lodged by one khushlim hussain that he and ten () other passengers were proceeding to villag bargo from gilgit, in a suzuki vehicle and on reaching at some distance from the place of occurrence, they having come to know about tension in the area, were reluctant to go further but, a page magistrate on special duty with police squad giving assurance of safe crossing the sensitive area, instructed them to follow his vehicle and they while following the magistrate with police squad when reached near basin rcc bridge, a group of persons armed with lethal weapons opened firing and pelted stones at the vehil cle as a result of which a few passenger sustained injuries and one tahir ali ultimately died in the hospital. the magistrate and police officials present at the spot remained silent spectators and did not bother to take any action to prevent the offence protect the life of passengers. the learned trial -i-khata punishable under section ppc and since the driver of vehicle proceeded to cross the sensitiv area on the instruction of magistrate and sad incident happened in presence of the magistrate and police officials on duty but they did not interfere to prevent the commission of offence, or to protect the life of passengers, therefor e, they would be equ ally respons ible for the fateful incident, and having not taken any preventive measure, were guilty of criminal negligence. the learned trial the state by way of filing an appeal under section of anti terrorism ac t, read with section -a cr.pc in the chief court questioned the legality of order of payment of diyat without challenging the acquittal of the accused. the precise question requiring determination in the present petition would relate to the responsibility of protection of life and property of the people which is sacred trust in a muslim state and the concept of qisas and diyat in islam in respect of the cases of qatl and hurts. the security of a person is one of the fundamental right as provided under article of gilgit baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, and article of the constitution of pakistan, and people of gilgit -baltistan being citizens of page pakistan have the guarantee of fundamental rights provided in the constitutio of pakistan. this court having considered the matter in the command of holy quran and sunnah of holy prophet (pbuh) required anjuman -e-imamia gilgit, tanzeem ahl -e-sunnat wa aljamat, gilgit and ismaili regional council gilgit to express their views i the matter for guidance of the court. the presidents, supreme appellate court bar association with cooperation of the president chief court bar association was required to constitute a penal of advocates well conversant with the islamic law for assistan ce of court and attorney general for pakistan was directed to depute a deputy attorney general for pakistan for our assistance and in addition dr. muhammad aslam khaki advocate, islamabad and consultant in sharia law was also asked to assist the court, but except ismaili regional council and dr. muhammad aslam khaki, no one has responded. the ismaili regional council without rendering any assistance on the legal question under reference, simply asked for supply of detail facts, whereas dr. muhammad aslam kh aki has sent an exhaustive research paper on the subject, and we deem it proper to reproduce the same hereunder for the benefit of examination of proposition: islamic concept of qisas –o- diyat. the security of life of a person had been a sacred trust in custom, law the driven law throughout the history. the security of a person is one of the fundamental rights of citizens of pakistan as enshrined in article of the constitution of islamic republic of pakistan the concept of qisas and that of diyat is a divine as well as customary. as far as its fundamental principles like right of retaliation in murder qatl -i- amd) or diyat in qatl i-khata( culpable homicide by mistake) and equality of mankind in taking qisas are concerned, it is a divine aw as far its application and modalities in a specific time territory زمان مکان )is concerned, it is a customary law e.g. amount of diyat, mode of payment of diyat etc. the fundamental principles being divine ar unchangeable uncompromisabl while the customary law will be changed with changing needs demands of the society on the support famous legal maxim of islamic law. الینکرتغییر االحکام تبغیر االزمان(مجلتہ the change in ruling or law shall not be resisted with chan ge in time before dilating upon the liability of an offender to pay diyat and the ri ght the victi or page his heirs to receive diyat, we deem it appropriate to discuss the concept philosophy of qisas diyat in islam. the dictionary meanings of qisas. (a) to root out قص الشعر to root out hair. (b) to follow the foot prints or to repeat the act. in quran it is said: in quran it is said: قصیہ الختہ وقالت she moses mother) asked his sister to trace him moses box by going back on the same way. in arabic use, it is said: القصیصتہ االبل قصص the camel followed the qasisah i.e she camel: which leads and is followed by other camels quran say about the moses his servant. فارتد اعلی آثار ھھا قصصا they returned on their own way tracing their own foot prints definitions of qisas: a. in fiqh, qisas means qawad قود )and its means: والجرح حبالجر بالقتل القتل killing a man for killing and causing injury for the injury b. qisas is punishment by causing similar hurt at same part of the body of the offender as he has caused to the victim, or by causing his death if he (offender) has committed qatil -i- amd. in islamic law it is applied in cases of offences against the body of the person whether it proves fatal or leaves wound or jurh جرح). if the offence proves fatal and the victim is killed, the retaliation by the wali of the victim against the offender by killing him is called qisas -fil-nafs( blood. vengeance or (لنفس فی قصاص )and if the offence against the body does not prove page fatal but it result in a hurt or jurh in which qisas is possible is called qisas -fi-ma dun al nafs النفس قصاص فیما دون qisas is ordained in those offence which accepts equality in retaliation. for example, in the offence of qatl i-amd murder) equality is possible in retaliation is possible by killing the offender. similarly in itlaf –j-udw عضو اتالف,)equality is pos sible in retaliation e.g. the nose for the nose, year for the year, tooth for the tooth, hand for the hand etc. but on the other hand if equality is possible, qisas does not lie against the offender. for the concept of qisas is enshrined in divine ordinanc as revealed in all the divine religions. quran says: کتبنا علیھم فیھا ان النفس بالنفس العین بالعین واالنف باالنف واالزن والسن والجروح قصاص in torah we decree for them all life for a life, an eye for an eye a nose for a nose, an year, a tooth for a tooth and for wounds is qisas. لقتلی فی االقصاص علیکم کتب آمنو یاایھاالذین (.. believers retaliation is decreed for you in slain; freeman for a freeman, a salve for a salve, a female for female. he who is pardoned by his aggrieved brother for some consideration, should follow his commitment fairly and pay the consideration with equity. ولکم فی القصاص حیوتہ یا ولی االلباب لعلکم تتقون in the law of equali ty qisas there is saving of life for you men of understanding اولی االلباب i.e. intelligentia. the victim or his wali can demand qisas as a matter of right. he can also forgive and the offender without compensation or compound on accepting badal -i –sulah it is noteworthy that the cases in which basically the qisas is ordained but due to some technical or other legal reasons qisas cannot be executed, diyat and arsh are fixed and are not left to the discretion of the victim or of the government or the judge. while in cases of inequitable hurts in which the execution of qisas is not possible due to difficulty of equality, the offender would be liable to daman (ضمان which is to be determine by the court. page in addition of diyat, arsh or daman which are the monetary compensation, the court can also award the punishment of imprisonment or stripes to the offender keeping in view the circumstances of case. however, in which qisas is executed, no other punishment can be awarded to the offender. it is to be oted that in fiqh ارش مقدرہ) sticto sanso, the monetary compensation other then diyat is further divided into arsh muqaddrah ارش مقدرہ (specified compensation) and arsh ghair muqaddarah (ارش غیر مقدرہ non specified compensation. arsh ghair muqadarah is further divided into daman and hukoomat i- adl as compensation shown in the chart below. compensation diyat arsh (دیت) (ارش) (for life) (for other hurts) (a) مقدرتہ )specified for (b) غیر مقدرتہ non specified for non equitable equitable injuries for non -equitable injuries other damages) daman hukamati adl ضمان) (حکومتہ عدل for non –equitable injuries for other indirect damages as a result of injury caused like the said effects e.g. expenditure on treatment in capacity for job etc. in case of default of payment of diyat. the english law provides imprisonment for indefinite rather for undefined period. it does not differentiat between the accused belonging to different economic groups. page islam being to torch bearer of as per is lamic law, the time for payment of diyat depends upon two factors variables. (a) the type of qatl homicide. (b) the economic position of the accused. (c) type of qatl or homicide: if the diyat has been imposed agains qatl i- khata qatal –shibh -i- amd قتل شبہ عمد, )the muslim jurists agree that it shall be a deferred diayat دیت معجلتہ and to some jurists shall be paid in three years i.e 3rd of diyat shall be paid every year. the same view has been incorporated in se ction and -x p.p.c for payment of diyat or arsh on the case may be in lump sum or in installments of three years.) and if the diyat has been ordered against qatl -i-amd in which execution of qisas is not possible then there difference of opinion a mong the jurists. ahnaf jurists hold that it shall also be a deffered diyat like one in qatl -e-khata and qatl -e-shibh -e-amd. on the other hand the majority jurists like shafis malikis have the view that such diyat shall be a prompt diyat دیت معجلتہ i.e. to be paid promptly and in lump sum. according to them, suchinst qisas and it requires prompt execution. so its alternate diyat must also be promet. moreover the murder is not entitled for concessions, while deferring the payment of diyat in installments is a concession. the authority for deferred diyat payment in three years by installments is derived from the conduct of second muslim caliph hazarat umar as he made it so in a case before him. however in the present day, it will change with hange in the economic condition of the accused and those of the society. the jurist have considered the payment of diyat as that of debt دین )which a man owes to other man. so the akham of debt shall mutatis mutandus apply for the recovery of diyat some jurists have allowed the imprisonment of the debtor against the debt due. however they made four conditions for it. page 1st condition: (i) that the debt should be prompt or has become due. second condition: (ii) the second condition for awarding imprisonment in default of payment of diyat is that the debtor should not be the parents how high so) of the creditors, as in islam, the parents h.h.s) cannot be imprisoned for the debt of their children h.l.s). the arguments for the said position area as follows. (a) وصاجھما فی الدنیا معروفا (قرآن) in this world be with your parents in good conduct .(:) (b) وبالوالدین احسانا (قرآن) behave with your parents nicely (:) (c a son complained to the holy prophet p.b.u.h) about his father that he takes the money from his account. the holy prophet p.b.u.h) said انت مالک ال بیک you your property belongs to your father so the jurist have consensus that a father canno be imprisoned for the debt of his children due from him. however, the father can be imprisoned for non payment of maintenance of his minor children and that too as tazir and not as against a debt. third condition: (iii) the third condition for the imprisonment against the debt is that there must be a request by the creditors to the in the absence of such request, the -moto cannot imprison the debtor except in case when the creditor or the beneficiary of the diyat are minors. this is because the jud ge has the parental position and is guardian of the minors. fourth condition: (iv) the fourth and the most important condition for the imprisonment of the debtor against the credit or is his sound financial position to pay off the debt. the issue of granting time to the offender to pay diyat is a double page edged weapon, it cuts both ways. on one hand it impairs the right of the creditor and on the other hand it is against the interest the destitute debtor if refused. as far as the destitute debtor is concerned, islam ordains convenience concession. when the debtor is rich موسر enough to pay the debt and his financial position is known proved so. in such case, if the debtor refuse to pay he may be humiliated and punished. the holy propet p.b.u.h) said لی الواجد ظلم یحل عرضہ عقوبتہ(ابو داو نسا ئی قال ابن المبارک یغلظ لہ یجس the default of the rich debtor is zulm (injustice of the debtor against the creditor), his humiliation and punishment is permitted. abne mubarak said that he will be dealt strictly will be imprisoned. the jurist ahmed waki (وکیع have also interpreted the punishment as to imprisonment nail ul- autar by al shaookani ). imam abu hanifa and his disciple imam zufar hold that he rich debtor) shall be imprisoned for indefinite period till he pays of the debt. however imam abu yusuf, imam muhammad among the ahnaf and the jurist of other schools of thought are of the view that if he does not pay the debt even after specific period of imprisonment says one, two or three months or higher(at the discretion of ), he shall be placed under hajr (حجر )interdict) by declaring him honcompos mentis, and his property shall be attached sold and the debt diyat shall be discharged. the debt is not written off even in case of the death of the debtor. in such case the debt shall be recovered from the assets of the deceased as first priority: quran says: فان کان لہ اخوتہ فالمہ السد من بعد وصیتہ یو صی بھااودین (:) page translation: the distribution in all cases is after is the payment of legacies and debts. to secure the transparency return of the debt, quran has asked the muslims to reduce the deal in writing and also to make witnesses to it. it says: یا ایھاالذین آمنواذا تداینتم بدین الی اجل مسمی فاکتبوہ الکتب بینکم کاتب بالعدل اوالیاب کاتباان یکتب کما علمہ ہللا فلیکتب لیملل الذی علیہ الحق ولیتق ہللا ربہ وال ینجس منہ شی فان کان الذی علیہ الحق سفیھا اوضعیفا اوال یستطیع ان یمل ھو فلیملل لیہ بالعدل واستشھدواشھیدین من رجالکم translation: ye who believe when deal with each in transactions involving future obligation in a fixed period of time, reduce them to writing let a scribe write down faithfully as between the parties: let not the refuse to write as god has taught him, son let him write, let him who incurs the liability dictate, but let him fear his lord god, and not diminish aught of what he owes if the party liable is mentally deficient, or weak, or unable himself to dictate, let his guardian ictate faithfully. and get two witnesses, out of your own men. in islam, payment of debt has bee emphasized to facilitate promote the issuing of debts by the creditors. the sunnah of the oly prophet reveals that the holy prophet muhammad (p.b.u.h) refused to offer the funeral prayer of the person who died without discharging his debts. the per son who does not repay the debt against him despite his capacity to repay has been condemned by the prophet and it is permitted to insult him punish him. the prophet said: () (حدیث)( لیا لواجد ظلم یحل عرضہ عقوبتہ the willful default in payment of debt by the rich debtor is injustice or zulm, it is permitted to insult him and to punish him. (ii) حطل الغنی ظلم the deferring debt by the rich debtor is injustice (muwatta imam malik) when the debtor is known or is proved as too poor to pay the debt. i.e. pauper or muflis مفلس in such case, he cannot be imprisoned as per all the jurists because the purpose of imprisonment is to force the debtor to pay the debt while a poor person is not able to pay the debt, hence his imprisonment is zulm islam page does not believe in imprisonment for imprisonment. even otherwise islam lays emphasis on leniency with the poor debtor. islam is a religion of convenience and concession and not of inconvenience. one the salient eatures of shariah is principle of convenience as compared to inconvenience. this principle of convenience concession is based upon the following verses ahadith. quran says: یریدہللا بکم الیسر ال یرید بکم العسر(القرآن translation: allah intends convenience with you and not incon venience with you (:) even in the recitation of quran, the muslims have been asked to read the easy verses or ahkam and do not get fatigued: quran says: فاقرءواما تیسر من القرآن( translation: read from the quran what is easy or convenient quran has been made easy and not difficult. (:) quran says: ولقد یسرنا القرآنللذکرفھل من مدکر translation: indeed we have made quran an easy book for guidance, is there any person to who contemplates into it. (:) similarly the purpose of sending the prophet and also his conduct as a role model was to remove the difficulties and the undue constraints over the mankind. quran says: ویضع عنھم اصرھم والعلل النبی کانت علیھم(القرآن )( translation: he releases them from their heavy and from the yokes that are upon them. (:) quran says: ان ہللا یا مربالعدل االحسان(القرآن )(: translation: allah ordains you to hold in islamic term, the prophet said: page علمواویسرواوالتعسروا teach the people and make easy way and do not make it in a difficult way. it reported that wherever the prophet was confronted with many solution of a problem, he opted for the asiest. it is on this principle of convenience that ordains the muslims to make the repayment of their debts due from the or debtors as convenient and give maximum allowance to the poor destitute. it is pertinent to not that in islam normally the repayment of debt is a responsibili ty a liability which must be onored by the debtors. the purpose of strict injunctions to the debtors to repay the debts by islam is in the interest of debtor and creditors. islam makes strict directions to repay the debt. quran says: وان کان ذوعسرۃ فنظرۃ الیمیسرۃ if the debtor is poor, he should be given time :) (:) الیکلف ہللا نفسا االوسعھا(قرآن) allah does not require anything from a person but as per his capacity however if the poor person has some property that will sold to satisfy the debt leaving the property which is required for his working or living. there are many traditions which requ ire the creditors to deal with the poor debtor in leniency and forgiveness. some are as below: وعن ابی ہریرۃ قال قال رسول ہللا کان فیما کان قبلکم تاجریداین فکان الناس فکان ازارای معسرااقال لفتینانہ تجاوزواعنہ لعل ہللا یتجاوزعنافتجاوزہللا عنہ(بخاری مسلم نسا ئی بحوالہ صحاح اتہ کتاب الدین) it is reported from abud hurairah that the holy prophet said that in the past time, there was a trader who used to lend loans to the people and when he found a debtor in difficulty he asked his workers to ignore the recovery with the hope that allah will also ignore our sins. the prophet said that in fact allah ignored his sins. there is another narration about a person who did never do any good deed. but he used to lend money to the people and instructed his workers to recover the loan from the rich and ignore the poor in recovery with the hope that page allah will ignore our sins. when this pe rson died allah asked him if he has done any good deed he replies no except that i used to give the loan to the people and said it my recovery worker to recover from the rich and ignore the poor in recovery with the hope that allah will ignore our sins allah said to the man: i have ignored your sins وعن ابی قتادۃ انہ طلب غریمالہ فتوارای عنہ ثم وجد فقال انی معسرفقال ہللا قال ہللا فانی دمعت رسول ہللا یقول من سرہ ان ینجیہ ہللا التعا لی من کرب یوم لقیامۃ فلینففس عن معسر اویضع عنہ it is reported by abut qatadah that he went to his debtor who initially did hide but later on appeared and on the demand of abu qatadah, the debtor deposed on oath that he was poor. abu qataqah said that he had heard from the holy prophet that whosoever wishes that allah shou ld protect him against the miseries of hereafter, he should give time to the poor or write off his loan muslim) another radition of the holy prophet(pb uh) as reported by abu saeed is as follows. a man in the period of holy prophet(p.b.u.h) suffered oss in the business of a fruit and his debt exceeded the prophet(p.b.u.h) said to the companions give him help so the people contributed for him as sadqah( صدقہ )or help but it did not satisfy the debt completely, the prophet(p.b.u.h) said to his cre ditors, you take what is there for you and you are not entitled for which is not there. (nail -ul- autor, (c) when the debtor financial position is not proved either way. in this case, the debtor will be imprisoned and an inquiry will be conducted into his financial position. however, such imprisonment for inquiry shall not exceed three months as per majority jurists. it is also worth nothing that in case there is no chance of improvement in that financial position of the debtor of diyat, it can be waved and be paid out of public exchequer. in this respect there is narration by i mran bin hussain عمران بن حسین )that a poor by cut the ear of a rich boy. the family of the poor boy came to the holy pr ophet p.b.u.h) and told the holy prophet (p.b.u.h) that they are destitute payment of any compensation.(abu daud, nissai) amount of di yat is not fixed. page on many surprised to note that the law of qisas diyat was not exclusively divine, it was pre -islamic and customary as well. the main law qisas was also revealed by allah almighty to the nations before muslims. quran says: کتبا علیھم فیھا انالنفس با النفس and we have made a law for them that the life will be taken against a life. quran did not provide the details and working of enfor cement of qisas and diyat. it only provided the right of qisas and of diyat to the victim or his legal heirs, equality of various classes of people in retaliation, and right of victim or his legal heirs, as the case may be, to forgive the offender however, the working details were left unspecified to be sp ecified by the people in the so cio-economic conditions of their own time. the holy prophet worked out the details like amount of diyat, kinds of diyat etc in his own time a nd for his own time as a rol model and as head of the state. the prophet p.b.u.h) also relied upon the customs in this connection provided the custom was not based upon injustice. however when the time socio economic condition prevelant in the time of the holy prophet upon which the holy prophet based his decisions and order were changed the second caliph hazrat umar changed such details given by the holy prophet without any reservation because he know that such decisions orders were not of religions nature but were of the political nature made in public interest keeping in view the soico -condition of his (prophet time. so when umer felt a change in the socie economic conditions in his caliphate, he changed the relevant provisions of aw despite the fact that these wer decided by the holy pr ophet. he knew that the prophet issued such details in his capacity of head of state and not in the capacity of the prophet. so he changed the value of diyat from dinars to dinar, changed the aaqila composition, waiving the liability of diyat against some destitute persons etc. on the same analogy and on the same pedestal, such details can be changed rather totally redesigned and worked out by the government or judici ary as a uthorised by the govt. by empowering it under arti cle of the constitution of islamic republic of pak istan one tradition of hazrat umer changing the value of diyat and its kinds is reproduced as below. page عن ابن عمر بن الحاص قال کانت قیمتہ الدیدعلیعہد رسول ہللا ثمان مائتہ دینار او ثمانیتہ اال درھم دیتہ اصل الکتاب کو مندعلی العصف من دیتہ المسلیمن الی ان استخلف عمر بن الخطاب فقام خطیبا فقال ان االبل قد غلت فقر ضھا علی اصل الذھب الف دینار علی احل الورق اثنی اعشرالف درھم علی البقر علی اھل الشاتہ ولی امل الحلل ماتی حلتہ (ابوداو it is reported by amr bin a as that in the period of the holy prophet (p.b.u.h) the value of diyat was eight hundred dinars or eight thousand dirahm and diyat of ahle kitab at that time was equal to the half of diyat of muslim, till the time umer became caliph and stood addressing, he said indeed the price of camels has gone up hence he (umer fixed one thousand dinar for the people dealing in dinars and for fixed irham for the people dealing in silver and for the cow holders cows and or the goats and upon the pearl –holders, two hundred pearls.(abu daud) there is no fixed time period for payment of diyat. through generally some jurists have stipulated a perio of three years for the payment of diyat by the offender, but it is not obligatory or static. the jurists have based their juristic opinion of fatwa on a decision of hazrat umar by which he granted to an offender a period of three years for the payment of diyat. hazrat umar had based his decision on the economic condition of the offender and that of the society of his time. now the economic conditions of the society have changed with change in time. so the period may be varied keeping in view the condition circumstances of the time. there is a famous islamic legal maxim which is one of the fundamental principles of ijtehad: ال ینکر تغیر االحکام تغیر االزمان(المجلتہ the ah kam of shariah) will not be denied a change with change in time it is pertinent to note that ijtehad is the pivot of the dynamics of islam being the last religion providing guidance for all the times to come ij tehad is the key to the new issues of the modern times. even one can see that hazrat umar also changed some de cisions of the oly prophet which he made in subjective circumstances of his time keeping in view the public interest. umar felt for changing such decisions as the chief executive of the state and not as a prophet and secondly that the prophet kept in view the public page interest of the people of his time and that after abupt a decade, the public interest was changed, hence the decisions were changed. such decisions of hazrat umar deviat ing orm the letters of sunnah but following the spirit of sunnah of the pr ophet, are called awliyati umar or preferences of umar. a detailed description of such decisions by umar is given by dr. sabhi muhammasani in his book al -falsafa tashree islami, urdu translation) lahore. while fixing the time as three years, indeed azrat umar translated the quranic term maisrar easy time as three years keeping in view the economic conditions of the offender and the society of his time and space. while determining the period of payment of diyat the term maisarah is the focuss a nd not the three year s. maisara can very one time and from one environment to other. the quranic verse which refers to the concession for convenient time to the debtor is reproduced below. فان کان زوعسرتہ فنظرتہ الی میسرتہ if the debtor does not have the capacity to repay the debt, extend the time till he becomes capable of paying it. mechanism for recovery of diyat from destitute in the life time of the prophet a debtor was brought before the holy prophet (p.b.u.h) by his creditors. the prophet sold out all his assists but the debts could was not fully satisfied, the prophet asked the people to give him sadaqah or alm. even after being benefited by sadaqat, the debt was not fully discharged; the holy prophet asked the creditors to take away what is avail able with him. the majority of the jurisits have held that defaulter of the debt shall be subjected to the proceedings of taflees (تفلیس i.e his property belongings (except of his needed) shall be sold out and he shall in no case be imprisoned. it is eported by lbne nafi that all of his property shall be sold out including his house, horse, slave and extra clothing but he will not be imprisoned in view of the varse of quran. وان کان زوعسرتہ فنظرتہ الی میسرتہ page it repo rted by all saeed al -khudri that a man suffered heavy losses in the purchase of fruit and he went under debts. the prophet asked the companions to gave him sadaqah for discharged of his debts. the people donated but the debt was not fully discharged. the prophet said to his creditor take what is there and there is nothing for you except what is there the prophet did not order for his imprisonment. this is the opinion of muaaz bin jabahal as given by shuraih. he will not be asked to earn in future to discharge the debt. however imam abu hanifa holds that even after that, the debtor will be followed with the possibility that he procures some property. imam malik, shafai and abu haneefa hold that the destitute will be imprisoned so that his pauper position etc confirmed. imam malik is of the view that he will not imprisoned except if he has been blamed for con cealing his property but if such property is not found out, he will be released and similarly if he is proved pauper, he will not be imprisoned is not found out, he ill be releas ed and similarly if he is proved pauper, he will not be imprisoned. (al-jame -li-ahkamul quran by al -qurtabi vol. page the said sunnah clearly lays down a model or mecha nism for the repay ment of debt against the destitute. it is in three stages: i) at the first stage, he will be made pauper( عمل نفلیس by selling out his assets (excluding assets of basic needs and tools of earning). ii) if the price of his assets sold is not enough to satisfy the debt against him, the society well contribute to it and even if the debt is not fully satisfied, then the creditor will be asked to take the available and forego the remaining amount. iii) the society contributory includes his relatives, friends, the general public through n.g.o pjilanthropists or through governme nt as government exchequ er also comes out to the public taxes and also that the govt. is the guardian of a person who has guardian. السلطان ولی لمن الولی لہ the ruler (government) is the guardian of the person who has no guardian this principle general guardianship the government works both ways. the government is entitled to the assists of a deceased who has no legal heirs i.e. his property will go to the public exchequer or bait -ul-mal. similarly in the case of a destitute person. his liabili ty may be discharged from the public exchequer. this principle is also supported by an islamic legal maximum which provides under. الغنم بالغرم that person is entitled to the benefit who is responsible for the loss the concept of islamic state as a wel fare state also entails the said principle. the system of aaqilah the tribe who pays iyat on behalf of the poor offender, is a pre-islamic system and is fit in the environment hierarchy of a tribal society in page which had a tribe to whom he paid the tax or contribution. in that society, the tribes used to pay the tax to the government and also revived the same incase of crises or as matter of help. in these days it is nor workable. however the institution of aaqil a may be transformed in multiple complex fund to whom the government, philanthropist and the n.g.o may be the contributory. the destitute offender after passing the substantive punishment of imprisonment and even before it may apply for a grant or soft oan as the case may be. he should be released on easy surety or security so that he should earn and pay. some jurist have the view that the diyat upon the muflis will be paid out of bait-ul-mal. they have relied upon the following traditions. it is repor ted by jabir that the prophet used to refuse offering funeral prayer who died leaving debt upon him, once a dead body was brought to him, the prophet asked if there is any debt against him, they said yes two dinans, the prophet said you may offer his praye i am not), abu qaradah said i stand guarantee, then the prophet offered his paryed. however when the prophet was bestowed with the victory of macca), he declared i am mearer to musim from he himself, so whosoever leaves debt, that is upon me and whos oever leaves property that is for his legal heirs. (ahmed, abu daud, niss ai ref nil -ul-autor, by al shookani, vol. page ). it is also reported by abu hurain that the prophet said in his address whosoever leaves behind property or a right, it is for his heirs and whosoever leaves behind liability or debt, it is upon me. salman as per tabrani added to it that after me it is no public exchequer (ibid). payment of diyat -respondibilty of the society. it is important to mention that islam lays great emphasis on solving and dissolving the problems debts of the poor people. quran has time again asked the muslim to release the necks( فک رقبتہ which includes emancipation of the slaves and paying the debts. such directions of فک رقبتہ has appeared six times in quran in four verses (three times), while detailing the eight categories of people for expenditure of alm, quran has included the people under debt as one of the categories on which zakat or khairat can be spent, quran says. (:) انما الصد قات للفقرآءوالمساکین والعامیلین علیھا translation: alms are for the poor and the needy, and those employed to administer the (funs) for those whose hearts have been (recently) reconciled to touth): for those in bondage and in debt: and for the wayf arer (thus i it) ordained by god, and god is full of knowledge and wisdom. quran has declared the expenditure for release of debt as great pious deed, birr بر) quran says: لیس البر تو لواوجوھکم قبل امشرق المغرب والکن البر من آمن باہللا والیوم االخر والملئکتہ والکتاب والنبینوآلی المال علی حبہ زوی القربی والیتمی والمساکین وابن السبیل والسائلین فی الرقاب translation: it is righteousness that ye turn you faces towards east or west but is righteousness. to believe in god and the last day and he angles, and the book, and page he messengers: to spend of your substances, out of love for him, for your kin, for orphans, for the needy, for the wayfarer, for those ho ask, and for the ansom of slaves. (iii) destitute is not pay diyat -------- (shah sitta vol. page (iv) the debt of destitute is upon the state فن ترک دینا فعلی (nailul autor, vol ,) (v) the destitute is not required to pay diyat, rather is required to fast for sixty days سورۃ النکاح dr. muhammad aslam khaki, advocate of supreme court of pakistan and a consultant in sharia law, has rendered very valuable assistance through the research paper and we appreciate his efforts the learned advocate general having placed reliance on observation of shariat appeal no. contended that as a result of aggression or criminal act of a person in a case of private enmity or otherwise, if loss is caused to the life or property of another person or he suffered bodily injury or death of a person is caused due to an intentional act or otherwise or negligence of another person, the wrong doer is individually responsible to pay diyat compensation to the victim in accordance with law. the observation of اس سلسلے میں قا نون را ئج الو قت اور قران سنت کے احکام کے تقابلی مطالعے سے جو صورت حا سامنے آتی ہے وہ یہ ہے کہ دونوں قسم کے قوانین کے درمیان اس معا ملے میں جذوی نوعیت کا اختالف نہیں ہے بلکہ بنیادی تصورات کا اختالف ہے را ئج الوقت قوانین کے تحت قتل خواہ کسی قسم کا ہو ضرب خواہ کسی قسم کا ہو محض اسٹیٹ کے خالف ایک جرم ہے اس کا ضرر رسیدہ شخص یا اس کے ورثاء سے براہ راست کوئی تعلق نہیں اس کے برخالف قرآن سنت اور فقہ اسالمی کی رو سے قتل اور ضرب خواہ کسی قسم کی ہو اس کی دو حیثتیں ہیں ایک حیثت یہ ہے کہ اس کے ذریعہ ایک انسان یا اس کے ورثاء کا حق پامال کیا گیا اور دوسری حیثت یہ ہے کہ اس کے ذریعے قانون اور نظم ضبط کی خالف ؤرزی کی گئ پہلی حیثت سے یہ جرائم ضرر رسیدہ شخص یا اس کے ورثاء کے خالف ہوتے ہیں اور دوسری حیثت سے اسٹیٹ کے خالف قرآن سنت اور اسالمی فقہ کی رو سے ان جرائم میں پہلی حیثیت غالب ہے اور دوسری حیثیت مغلوب ہے البقرہ کی آیت نمبر میں بیان کیا ہے:- فمن عفی لہمن اخیہ شیئی فاتباع بالمعروف وادآء الیہ باحسان ذلک تخفیف من ربکم رحمت فمن اعتدی بعد ذالک فلہ عزاب الیم ہاں جس کو اس کے فریق کی طرف سے کچھ معافی ہو جائے تو معقول طور پر مطالبہ کرنا اور خوبی کے ساتھ اس کے پاس پہنچا دینا یہ تمھارے پروردگار کی طرف سے تخفیف ہے اور ترحم ہے پھر جو شخص اس کے زیادتی کا مرتکب ہو تو اس شخص کو بڑا دردناک عزاب ہو گا (سنن ابی داود حدیث نمبر ص821 ج0 مصنف عبدالرزاق حدیث نمبر عالمہ ابن اثیر جزری اندھی لڑائی کی لغوی تشریح کرتے ہوئےلکتھے ہیں والمعنی ان یوجد بینھم قتییل یعمی امرہ والیتبین قاتلہ" مطلب یہ ہے کہ ان کے درمیان کوئی ایسا مقتول پایا جائے جس کا معاملہ اندھیرے میں اور اس کا قاتل معلوم نہ ہو اس کے بر خالف اسالمی احکام کی رو سے قتل اور ضرب کے جرائم چونکہ براہ راست ضرر رسیدہ شخص اور اس کے ورثاء کے خالف ہیں- لہذا ان پر معافی دینے یا ان پر معاوضے کے ساتھ یا بغیر معاوضے کے صلح کرنے کا اختیار بھی انھیں کو ہے اور عدالت سے ایک مرتبہ مجرم قرار پانے کے بعد قصاص یا دیتکی حد تک اسٹیٹ page کوئی مداخلت نہیں کر سکتی ہاں مقتول کے ورثاء کو معافی یا صلح کرنے کی ترغیب ضرور دے سکتی ہے چنانچہ حضرت انس بن مالک روائیت کرتے ہیں کہ مارایت رسول صل ہللا علیہ والہ وسلم رفع الیہ شیئی فیہ قصاص االمر فیہ بالعفو میں نے رسول صل ہللا علیہ والہ وسلم کو کبھی نہیں دیکھا کہ آپ صل ہللا علیہ والہ وسلم کے سامنے کوئی ایسا مقدمہ الیا گیا ہو جس میں قصاص آتا ہواورآپ صل ہللا علیہ والہ وسلم نے اس میں معاف کرنے کا ترغیبی حکم نہ دیا ہو-(سنن ابی داو حدیث نمبر ص12 ج0 مطبوعہ بیروت) لیکن یہ تر غیب محض ترغیب ہی کے درجے میں ہے معافی دینے یا نہ دینے کا آخری فیصلہ مقتول کے ورثاء ہی کے اختیار میں ہے اس کے برخالف اسالمی احکام کی رو سے قتل اور ضرب کے جرائم چونکہ براہ راست ضرر رسیدہ شخص اور اس کے ورثاء کے خالف ہیں لہذا ان پر معافی دینے یا ان پر معاوضے کے ساتھ یا بغیر معاوضے کے صلح کرنے کا اختیار بھی انھیں کو ہے اور عدالت سے ایک مرتبہ مجرم قرار پانے کے بعد قصاص یا دیت کی حد تک اسٹیٹ کوئی مداخلت نہیں کر سکتی ہاں the le arned advocate general however submitted that this is duty of the state machinery to effect the recovery of the amount of diyat or compensation as determined by the court under the law from wrong doer for payment to the victim and also conceded that in the light of principle of state responsibility of muslim state, if damage is caused to the life and property of citizens as a result of an act of state or government or an act of an agent of state directl or indirectly or as a result of natural disaster, the state is under legal obligation to pay compensation for the loss caused to the victims. the doctrine of legal sovereignty as enshrined in holly quran and sunnah of holly prophet (pbuh) over the entir universe belongs to almighty a llah alone and in a muslim state concept of state sovereignty is that authority must be exercised by the people through state government within the limits prescribed by allah as a sacred trust. it has been ordained in holly qura in sura al -imaran ayat no. as under: قل الھم مالک الملک توتی الملک من تشاء تنزع الملک ممن تشاء وتعزمن تشاء تزل من تشاء says, allah, lord of sovereignty, thou givest sovereignty to whomsoever thou pleases; and thou takest away sovereignty rom whomsoever thou pleases. thou exaltest whosoever thou pleases and thou abasest whomsoever thou pleases. pakistan is a sovereign islamic state and gilgit -baltistan is an essential part of sovereign of pakistan and in the light of doctrine of state sover eignty in islam, the government of pakistan and government of gilgit -baltistan being trustees for the discharge of sovereign functions and responsible for all affairs of the trust have legal obligation to provide protection to the life and property of stat subjects on the basis of principle of state responsibility. in islam the human dignity is inviolable and right of life cannot be taken away except in accordance with the injunction of islam. this is basic responsibility obligation of an islamic state to provide bread and butter to its citizen and also protect their life, liberty and property. the holly quran, ordains in surah (:) anyone who kills a believer deliberately will receive as his reward a sentence to live in hell forever god will be a ngry with him and curse him, and prepare dreadful torment for him in surah (:) says. do not devour one another wealth by false and illegal means islam prohibits homicide except in truth and due process of law to carryout islam also with equal clarity conferred the right of security of property as ordained in surah supra and as was said by holly prophet (pbuh) in address at the occasion of farewell hajj. page the criminal law of pakistan without any exception is enforced in gilgit baltistan and criminal the qisas and diyat ordinance, relating to the offences affecting human body in the spirit of injunction of islam inserted in pakistan penal code defines different kind of qatl and hurts, in chapter xvi ppc. qatl -i-amd has been defined in section ppc and punishment of qatal -i-amd has been provided under section ppc, whereas qatl -i-shibh -i-amd and qat l-i-khata have been defined in section and ppc and punishment of qatl -i-shibh -i-amd and qqtl -i-khata has been provided under section and ppc respectively, whereas qatl -bis- sabab is punishable under section ppc, qatil -i-amd, qatl shibh -i-amd and qatl-i-khata have been described in holy quran whereas qatl -bis-sabab has been described in sunnah of holly prophet (pbuh). the detail examination of the matter in the light of the law of islam as ordained holly quran and sunnah of holly proph et (pbuh) would show that concept of diyat, arsh and daman in islam is different to the law of compensation in civil, criminal and general law. diyat is defined in section ppc payable by the offender to the legal heirs of the deceased in cases of qatl -i-amd, qatl -i-khata, and qatl -bis-sabab but diyat is not a simple compensation, in lieu of damages rather it is a sort of punishment which is only payable in the cases in which the offence is not liable to the enforcement of qisas, or qisas is not enforcea ble, whereas, arsh and daman is paid in hurt cases. in short, diyat is a compensation blood money as specified in injuction of islam, and is payable in cases of qatl -i-amd if it is not liable to qisas or qisas in not enforceable. diyat is also payable as unishment in cases of qatl -i-khata or shibh -i-amd and qatl bis sabab, because these offences are not liable to qisas. qisas means punishment by causing similar hurt on the same part of body of offender in the same manner as has caused hurt to the victim in committing qatl-i-amd and if offence of qatl -i-amd is not proved to be liable to qisas or punishment of qisas is not enforceable, the offender may be liable to the punishment of diyat with imprisonment as tazir. the holly quran in surah albaqrah addre ssing the believers says you have faith; qisas is prescribed for you unlawfully murdered. in the same surah of holly quran, concept of for giveness and payment of blood money has been described. the command of holly quran in the above su rahs and in some other verses of holly quran revealed at different occasions is that in addition to the individual responsibility of offender, the government in a muslim state being responsible to provide full protection to the life and property of its cit izens is directly or indirectly responsible to pay compensation for the damage caused to the life or property of a citizen, in accordance with the injunction of islam. the essential question requiring determination relates to the classification of offences for the purpose of payment of diyat or compensation in case of loss of life to the legal heirs of victim and in case of bodily injury to the in jured. there are distinct offence and the offences relating to human body also are of different characterist ics, therefore, the payment of compensation or diyat as the case may be, in such offences in all circumstances may not be an obligation of government. the sectarian hatred and difference of opinion in religious matters is not as such an offence whereas sec tarian violence or killing for difference of religious opinion or sectarian hatred is an offence within the ambit of terrorism. the imposing or spreading a religious opinion on others by force and violence is also a crime of the page nature of terrorism and sec tarian crimes accordingly can be categorized with reference to the nature of transaction. there is no concept of division of muslim in different sects or religious difference in islam, therefore, killing of each others on account of difference of opinion i a fasad -fil-ardh which is a seious crime and is strongly prohibited in islam. the use of derogatory and insultive language showing disrespect to the sacred and holy persons is religious offence under the law and in general terms is called blasp hemy. the religious offences have been defined in section to -c ppc and a person by using derogatory words against the sacred and holy persons commits an offence of balsphemy and may not be entitled to any concession in law or also may not deserve to any leniency punishment as the religious offences apart from causing injury to the religious, feelings of the people considered serious crime against the society. the religious offences are not compoundable and neither the state nor an individ ual or a group of religious sect can compound such an offence and grant pardon to an offender of religious offence. blasphemy is irreverence towards od, religion, a religious icon holy person and something considered sacred. blasphemy is malicious revil ement of god and religion which was considered a crime is common law of england and in some of the countries of world it is an offence under statutory law. the insult and disgrace of holy prophet (pbuh) is a most serious offence in islam and in the word of holy quran if an act of blasphemy in respect of holy prophet (pbuh) is committed by a muslim by faith, he is murtid an a murtid is wajib -ul-qatal in islam. the insult of holy prophet (pbuh) in any manner is an offence under section -c which is pun ishable with death or life imprisonment as under: -c. use of derogatory remarks etc., in respect of holy prophet. whoever by words, either spoken or written, or by visible representation, or by any imputation, innuendo, or insinuation, directly or indirectly, defiles the sacred name of the holy prophet muhammad (pbuh) shall be punished with death, or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. the insult of holy prophet (pbuh) by words or otherwise directly or indirectly is very seri ous matter in lslam and if a person muslim by faith is found guilty of an act of disgracing the holy prophet (pbuh), he is treated most hatred person in uslim society and may be a murti d. the disgrace or insult of holy prophet muhammad (pbuh) is extremely a sensitive matter as no muslim in muslim or non -muslim state can take any exception to the high respect and honour of holy prophet. the holy quran in surah ah zab ayat no. and ordained as under: surah ahzab ayat no. page this prophet is th owner of the muslims even more than their own selves and his wives are their mothers. and blood relations are nearer to one another in the book of allah than other muslims and emigrants but that you do any favour to your friends. this is inscribed in the book surah ahzab ayat no. it is not far a believing man or a believing woman, when allah and his messenger have decided a matter, that they should (thereafter) have any choice about their affair. and whoever disobeys allah and his messenger has certainly strayed into clear error. the holy prophet (pbuh) in the context said as under: none of you can be a momin (complete) until you love me more than your children, parents and the whole mankind the almi ghty allah further in surah al i mran ayat no., surah al nisa ayat no., surah al a raf ayat no. and surah noor ayat no. dictates for the love and high respect of holy prohpet(pbuh) as under: surah al imran verse the day when every soul shall find presented whatever it did good and whatever it did of evil; it will long, would there be a far distance between it and me. and allah warns you of his torment; and allah is kind enough over his bondsmen. surah al isa ayat no. page and whoso opposes the messenger after the rig ht way has become clear and follows a way other than the way of muslims, we shall leave him on his own conditions and shall cause him to enter; and what is an evil place of returning. surah al a raf ayat no. do they not ponder that there is no relation of insanity to their companion? he is only a warner manifests. surah noor ayat no. make not the summoning of the messenger among yourselves, like one calls the other among you, undoubtedly, allah knows those of you who slip away quietly taking shelter of any excuse therefore let those who do against the command of the messenger fear lest some trial befall them or painful torment overtake them. the holy quran in surah a hujraat verse no. commands as unde r:- page believers raise not your voices above the voice of the communicator of unseen the rophet) and speak not aloud in presence of him as you shout to one another, lest your works become vain while you are unaware. the muslims in the wor ld firmly believe in oneness of god and holy prophet muhammad (pbuh) as the last prophet. the entire muslim wor ld give very high respect and honour to holy prophet (pbuh) and true muslim, having respect and honour for holy prophet (pbuh) cannot even think of use of any insultive or derogatory language showing disrespect to the honour and dignity of holy prophet (pbuh). the killing of a person by his fellow person in ordinary circumstances as has been defined in section ppc is an offence of qatal -i-amd which is punishable under section ppc and question whether a killer of a person who committed an act of blasphemy of holy prophet (pbuh) which is an offence under section -c ppc punishable with death or li fe imprisonment can also be held guilty of qatal-i-amd within the meaning of section and ppc would essentially require determination to distinguish the nature of two transaction for the purpose of punishment, section and ppc provide as under: qatal -i-amd. whoever, with the int ention of causing death or with the intention of causing bodily injury to a person, by doing an act which in the ordinary course of nature is likely to cause death, or with the knowledge that his act is so imminently dangerous that it must in all probabili ty cause death, causes the death of such person, is said to commit qatal -e-amd. punishment of qatl -i-amd: whoev er commits qatle -e-amd shall, su bject to the provisions of this chapter be: (a) punished with death as qisas; (b) punished with death for imprisonment for life as ta zir having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case, if the proof in either of the forms specified in section is not available; or (c) punished with imprisonment of either description for a erm which may extend to twenty five years, where according to the injunctions of islam the punishment of qisas is not applicable. the plain reading of the provision of section and ppc may suggest that intentional killing of a person is qatal -i-amd liable to the punishment of death as qisas under section (a) ppc or death or life imprisonment under section (b) ppc as tazeer but the killing of a person who insulted holy prophet (pbuh) in terms of section -c ppc may not be an offence of qatal -i-amd punishable under section (a) or (b) ppc. the blasphemer of holy prophet (pbuh) is liable to the punishment of death or life imprison ment under section -c ppc and a blasphemer is also a most hatred person in the so ciety and in islam he i murtid, therefore, it may not be possible to bring the act of killing a person who committed an act of blasphemy of holy prophet (pbuh) within the page ambit of qatal -i-amd for the purpose of death as qisas or tazeer and transaction in such a case may fall wi thin the ambit of section (c) ppc for the purpose of punishment. the provision of section -c ppc with reference to the quranic version referred above is based on concept of high respect, honour and dignity of holy pophet (pbuh) and punishment provi ded therein is also quite in consonance with the injunction of islam. therefore, this is an obligation of state in a muslim community to set the law at motion against the person who commits an act of blasphemy of holy prophet (pbuh) and in case of failure of state, the killing of such a person by a fellow person for committing act of causing insult to holy prophet (pbuh) may not be considered qatal -i-amd. the killing of a person for his act of killing of a fellow person as a result of private revenge or en mity is entirely different to the killing of a person for causing hurt to the religious faith and feelings of a muslim by showing disrespect to holy prophet (pbuh). the killer of a blasphemer of holy prophet (pbuh) has no personal motive or private enmity or revenge to equate the two transaction in same scale within the definition of qatal -i-amd. the act of disgracing the holy prophet (pbuh) in any manner being most sensitive matter in a muslim society is not at all tolerable by the muslims and this is well known in all muslim and non muslim societies that a true muslim cannot digest insult of holy prophet in any manner as the high respect of holy prophet (pbuh) is part of religious faith of muslims. the reaction of a muslim on causing the insult to the holy prophet peace be upon him is not for nay worldly consideration rather it has deep concern with religious faith of a muslim and causing hurt to the religious faith of a person, is a grave religious provocation and if in consequence to such provocat ion, the blasphemer of holy prophet (pbuh) is killed under the influence of religious faith it may not be as such an act of qatal -i-amd punishable under section (a) or (b) ppc. the disrespect to holy prophet (pbuh) in any manner is not acceptable i muslim society and consequently no person either muslim by faith or a non muslim has any right to behave in disrespectful manner in the honour of holy prophet (pbuh). the act of showing disrespect to holy prophet (pbuh) may gravely injure the sacred fe eling of a muslim with very serious consequence. in islam the place of an offender of an offence of blasphemy of holy prophet (pbuh) after death is hell and he is not an innocent person in life or after death, therefore, the killing of such a person by a fellow person is neither an act of qatal -i-amd in terms of terrorism or otherwise nor it is a sectarian killing within the preview of an act of terrorism to be tried by the special court established under anti-terrorism act, the net result of a bove discussion is that the insult of the holy prophet (pbuh) in any manner and in any circumstance is not digestible by a true muslim page and if a muslim under the influence of his religious feelings kills a blasphemer of holy prophet (pbuh), he may not be li able to the punishment of qatal -i-amd under section (a) and (b) ppc rather he being guilty of an act of taking law in his hand may be liable to the punishment for an offence within the preview of section -c ppc. the concept of state responsibili ty in respect of the person and property of a citizen subject to the state loyalty is foundation of state in islam. the quran is the supreme law in a muslim state and state loyalty is the basic obligation of citizens in the same manner as the state has fundamental duty of protection of life, liberty and property of its citizen. this is well recognized rule of law that a citizen who is not loyal to the state or is involved in anti -state activities has no right to claim any privilege or concession of law, on the basis of principle of state responsibility and a person guilty of an offence under section -c ppc in a muslim state is not considered loyal to the state. in the light of foregoing discussion a killer of blasphemer is neither liable to pay diyat to the legal heirs of deceased blasphemer nor the state under the concept of state responsibility has any liability to pay diyat for the death of deceased blasphemer or give any other worldly award to him after death. in islam the offences relating to human body are not only against the victims but are also against the society and muslim state in addition to protect the right of an individual is also responsible to protect the interest of society. the offenses relating to the human body under chapter vi ppc are compoundable in the manner provided thereunder, but the state authorities or courts are not empowered to grant pardon to an offender or compound an offence in the cases of qatl or hurt without the intervention of legal heirs of deceased or a vic tim, if he is alive. the legal heirs of a deceased in a case of qatl and a victim of hurt have the right to grant pardon to an offender with permission of court and without of state with or without payment of compensation, but the court or state cannot giv pardon to an offender or a convict in such cases without consent of legal heirs of the deceased or the victim as the case may be. the state may peruse the private parties for compromise or pardon and forgiveness with or without compensation in the name of almighty allah. the common law is that a person who is responsible for causing death or bodily injury to a fellow person in addition to the normal punishment is also responsible for payment of compensation subject to law and direction of court. whereas i a muslim sate, in the light of concept of state responsibility of protection of life, liberty and property of its citizens in islam, the exception to the general law of individual liability is that if due to the failure of state machinery to maintain pea ce in the society and administer the payment of compensation for the loss of life and property of people may be direct liability of state. this is responsibility of states authorities to enforce law and administer the affairs of state for protection of citizens in accordance with law and if due to the negligent act of a state authority, a person has suffered, whether such an act i intentional or accidental or by mistake, the burden is on the state to make payment of compensation for the loss page caused to the victim. the function of courts in a muslim state is dispensation of the careful examination of the matter in the light of command of holy quran and the injunction of islam, a muslim state can take no exception to the responsibility of sate for effective enforcement of law to maintain peace. the ruler in a muslim state being guardian of the citizen is responsible for the protection of life and property of the citizens and if due to bad law and order situation or as a result of unforeseen events, or in consequence to an act of a state authority intentionally or unintentionally, directly or indirectly, willfully or otherwise, damage is caused to the life or property of a person, the government in the ight of principle of the state responsibility is under legal and moral obligation to pay compensation to the victim for the loss caused to him, as a result of such an act. the state machinery must also provide legal aid and help recovery of compensation in case of loss caused to a person as result of criminal act of a fellow person. in the light of dictate of holly quran, the protection of life, liberty and property of a person in a muslim state is responsibility of the state, and state machinery is responsible to maintain peace in the society. the failure of the state authorities to enforce the law effectively may create unrest in the society and also result in the loss of life and property of people because of bad law and order situat ion, and state being responsible to protect the life and property of people, is under obligation to pay compensation to the aggrieved person for the loss of life or property. the victims of such circumstance may have legal right to claim compensation from the government, particularly in the cases, firstly if loss is caused to the life or property of a person as a result of an act of state or an act of government or an act of an agent of government, either such an act was due to the willful negligence of a tate authority or otherwise. secondly the damage and loss is caused to a person due to the failure of state machinery to control law and order situation to maintain peace and administer criminal the loss caused in unfore seen circumstances to the life or property of a person as a result of a natural disaster or act of god. the guarantee of life and liberty subject to law is fundamental right of every citizen provided under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, read with article of the constitution of pakistan, as under: article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governa nce) order security of perso n:- no person shall be deprived of liberty save in accordance with law. article of the constitution of pakistan: security of person: no person shall be deprived of life or liberty save in accordance with law. page the government of gilgit -baltistan in the light of the above provisions in the governance order, read with constitution of pakistan and the law as is enforced in gilgit -baltistan, subject to the injunction of islam as laid down in the holy quran and sunnah of holly prophet(pbuh) is under legal obligation to protect the life and property of the people and take prevent ive measures against wrong doer in the society, and if state machinery fails in effective enforcement of law for protection of life and property of the people, the aggrieved person and victims of bad law and order situation may claim compensation a of right from state for the loss caused to them as result of such abnormal circumstances. the concept of state responsibility in muslim state is that state government is considered guardian of the people and has fundamental responsibility towards its subjects to protect the citizen from external aggression and internal disturbance and also provide them basic needs of life with security of life and their property. gilgit -baltistan is sovereign part of pakistan and territory of gilgit -baltistan is gover ned by gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, the laws of pakistan by virtue of article of the governance order are applicable to the territory of gilgit -baltistan and although the constitution of pakistan is not directly a pplicable to this special territory but the principle of constitution may apply without any exception. in the constitution of pakistan article provides that islam shall be the state religion and by virtue of article -a of the constitution, objective res olution, based on the concept of islamic way of life and sovereignty of state has been made substantive part of the constitution as under: the principles and provisions set out in the objectives resolution reproduced in the annexure are hereby mad substantive part of the constitution and shall have effect accordingly. article of constitution of pakistan and article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance) order, provide that no law contrary to the injunction of islam shal be enacted. this is to be seen that (empowerment and self governance) order, has been issued by the government of pakistan in exercise of power under article of constitution of pakistan, and under the provision of article governance order, any law or provision of law enforced in gilgit -baltistan if enacted in conflict to the spirit of islam shall be treated repugnant to the injunctions of islam as ordained in the holy quran and sunnah of holy prophet (pbuh). the objective resolution has been made substance part of constitution of pakistan by virtue of article -a of the constitution and people of gilgit -baltistan being citizen of pakistan in terms of citizenship act would be governed accordingly and state authorities in gilgit -baltistan must follow the spirit of this resolution and relevant provisions of constitution of pakistan. the anti -terrorism act is a special law which has been enacted by the parliament of pakistan for better administration of criminal page the careful examination of the proposition in the light of provisions of constitution of pakistan and the law on the subject read with gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance), order and the concept of responsibility of muslim state in isla m, we would not take any exception to the direction given by the trial court in the present case and observation made by the chief court on the question of payment of diyat to the legal heirs of the deceased. however it is, necessary to laid down criteria for determination of the question regarding the direct or indirect responsibility of state in respect of payment of diyat and compensation to the aggrieved person for guidance as under: a. in criminal cases relating to human body which are compoundable, the parties may at any stage of the proceeding before or after commencement of trial or execution of sentence effect compromise and aggrieved party may forgive the offender with the permission of court, with or without payment of diyat or compensation as he case may be. b. in case of self defence a person may not be liable to pay diyat etc but parties may effect compromise with or without payment of compensation and state authorities in such cases without consent of the aggrieved person cannot grant pardo to an accused. c. the state government is liable to pay compensation to the legal heirs of victims of terrorisms or of sectarian killing and in all other criminal cases which remained untraced either, because of negligence of state functionaries or other wise or as a result of failure of state to maintain law and order situation for protection of its citizens. d. the damage if any is caused to the person or to the property of an individual due to an act of government or its agent or as a result of an act of state or due to any natural calamity, or disaster, the state government is responsible to pay compensation to the aggrieved person. e. in all other cases in which a person is victim of wrong act of fellow person, the state must provide neces sary protection of law to the aggrieved person and also provide assistant for recovery of the loss caused to the victim. if in consequence to judicial determination a direction is given by the court for payment of diyat or compensation, by a person to anot her person, the state is responsible for effecting recovery of the amount of diyat compensation from the person who has been directed to make payment through the machinery of law for payment to the aggrieved person and in case of failure of state machiner to discharge its duty, the amount of compensation or diyat etc as the case may be, shall be paid by the government from state exchequer and may subsequently effect recovery from defaulter. f. the payment of amount of diyat as per direction of the court or in case of compensation between the parties must be paid within reasonable time but not more than three years as provided in section ppc. in untraced and national disaster cases the payment of diyat compensation is exclusive responsibility of state and in normal circumstance must be paid within page six months from the date of incident occurrence, diyat shall be paid in accordance with the rules notified from time to time by the federal government of pakistan and compensation as per determinatio of concerned authorities. in all other cases the payment of diyat etc required to be made a person, if is not paid within the prescribed time, and state machinery failed effect recovery of diyat amount, diyat will be paid by the government from state exchequer and may ultimately recover from the person liable to pay. g. subject to all just exceptions the government under the concept of state responsibility has no obligation to pay di yat or compensation as the case may be to the legal heirs of deceased person who was killed by a fellow person for being not loyal to state or for committing an act of blasphemy of holy prophet (pbuh) and such person is also not entitled to any worldly award after death. in consequence to the above discussion, we hold hat subject to the exceptional cases referred above, state is under legal obligation to pay compensation or diyat as the case may be under the principle of state responsibility. the failure of the official agencies of government in tracing out the criminal cases is gross negligence of the state functionaries, and consequently, in the light of principle of state responsibility in all untraced cases, this is liability of the government to make payment of diyat as compensation to the legal heirs of deceased an to the victim in hurt cases, in accordance with law. the government in all untraced murder and hurt cases either of sectarian nature or as a result of terrorism or otherwise, without any distinction, in the light of principle of state responsibility, mus pay diyat compensation to the aggrieved person victim within six months. in the light of concept of state sovereignty and responsibility of state government in islam, the questing regarding payment of di yat compensation by the state as its liability to the citizens in peculiar circumstances as mentioned herein above has been answered accordingly. the criminal petition filed by the state against the judgment of chief court under challenge is dismissed. chief