page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. the state through national accountability bureau petitioner. pervaiz iqbal son of abdul raza, former gm natcl, jutial gilgit. respondent. present: the additional prosecutor general nab alongwith -on-record for the petitioner. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: -.. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this cr. appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the cr. appeal no. filed by the petitioner was dismissed. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this leave to appeal. briefly, the facts of the instant proceedings are that the respondent was charged under section (a) read with section of the national accountability ordinance, on the basis of complaint lodged by the board of directors of natcl in the year before the learned anti -corruption cell, ministry of interior islamabad against the corruption and corrupt practices in nat cl page registered under co -operative societies act, the complaint was transmitted to fia crimes circle rawalpindi for and submission of report. the federal investigating agency (fia) conducted the investigation of the case. the io recorded statement of witnesses under section cr. pc besides documentary evidence. meanwhile, the remaining investigation of the case was entrusted to the then eputy director fia crime circle gilgit who also recorded statement of remaining pws under section cr. pc. after completion of the investigation, challan of the case against responder pervaiz iqbal was submitted in the learned trial court i.e. natio nal accountability court. the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial. the prosecution in order to prove its case against the accused produced and examined as many as prosecution witnesses. the learned trial court after appraising the evidence, hearing the learned counsels for the respective parties and upon proven guilty convicted sentenced the accused years r-i and with fine of rs. ,, vide ... the respondent accused feeling aggrieved by and dis satisfied with the said judgment filed cr. appeal no. before the learned chief court whereby the learned chief court vide its .. reduced modified the imprisonment of the respondent from to years while the fine was also been reduced to rs. -. at that time no appellate forum in gilgit page baltistan was available in the northern areas. consequently, the respondent filed an appeal before the learned lahore high court, rawalpindi bench against the judgment of the learne trail court. the learned lahore high court upon hearing dismissed the appeal of the respondent for want of jurisdiction. the respondent challenged the order of the learned lahore high court, rawalpindi bench before the the apex court of pakistan upon hearing iss ued direction to the federal government of pakistan to establish an appellate forum to the citizens of northern areas vide its order ... after establishment of northern areas court of appeal, both the petitioner and respondent preferred appeals before the said forum. upon hearing, the appeal of the petitioner was dismissed being barred by time and appeal preferred by the respondent was remanded back to the trial corut for hearing afresh. consequent ly, learned trial court acquitted the respondent from the charges vide ... the operative part of the said judgment is hereby reproduced as under: quote the upshot of what has been discussed above is that proper procedure was not adopted during inquiry investigation of the case. as such, the reference is defective and not in accordance with relevant provisions of nab ordinance, hence, not maintai nable. consequently, the accused is hereby acquitted. file after completion be consigned to record. unquote. page the petitioner being aggrieved filed appeal before the learned chief court who upon hearing dismissed vide its judgment .. hence, this leave to appeal. the learned additional prosecutor general nab submits that the embezzleme nt and corruption of the respondent as general manager was disclosed in in an a udit report conducted jointly by the then assistant director lb rd and assistant director fia. subsequently the investig ation was entrusted to the then deputy director fia gilgit who also recorded statement of remaining pws under section cr. pc and prepared report under section cr. pc. he submits that after closing of investigation, the then deputy director fia gilg it submitted reference against the respondent in the learned trial court under nab ordinance, through chairman nab. per learned counsel, the prosecution has successfully proved its case against the respo ndent beyond a shadow of doubt. the prosecution witnesses have supported prosecution version. he further submits that the fia is competent to conduct inquiry investigation of the case. the respondent basically belonged to a poor family but after assumption of charge of the post of general manager natcl, he accumulated moveable and immoveable propert ies in the name his family by means of corruption and corrupt practices. he submits that the respondent has failed to prove his innocence under section of nab ordinance he reiterates that the responde nt has caused page loss of rs. ,,, to natcl and government exchequer by embezzlement and misappropriation for which his is liable to be punished under section nab ordinance, he submits that the learned trial court i.e. national accountabili ty court has rightly convicted the respondent in accordance with law on the contrary sentences awarded to the respondent were wrongly modified by the learned chief court vide impugned order ... he prays that the impugned order may graciously be set aside by maintaining the .. earlier the learned trial court. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned .. order the learned chief court as well as the .. the learned accountability court gilgit. he contends that the case against the respondent is based on the complaint lodged by one haji abdul hakeem, ex -vice chairman and directors of natcl against -baltistan, alleging malpractices and embezzlement on his part. he also contends that there was no allegation against the present respondent in the said complaint. per learned counsel, the co mplaint against the then chief secretary gilgit -baltistan was forwarded to fia for investigation and the inquiry of the case was conducted by during inquiry investigation, the said investig ating officer (io) diverted the page investigation towards respondent with malafide intention. the io has also held responsible the then chief secretary gilgit -baltistan, -baltistan, ex -section of ficer kana division islamabad and he contends that the other accused were neither arrested nor they have been discharged under section cr.pc. their names as an accused appeared in co lumn no. of the challan. he further contends that the respondent was made scapegoat and the reference submitted in the learned trial court was in utter violation of provisions of nab ordinance, he adds that under nab ordinance fia is not com petent to conduct inquiry investigation in nab cases and the respondent can not be arrested without prior permission of chairman nab. the respondent was arrested by fia without permission of competent authority as such reference against the respondent was not in accordance with law. he contends that the prosecution has relied upon audit report conducted in for the period of of natcl but subsequently audit of natcl was also conducted by chartered accountant for the period from to wher eby no objectionable point was raised against the respondent namely pervaiz iqbal. in this regard, the entire inquiry and reference is silent and audit of the chartered accountant was not taken into consideration by investigating officer (i.o) during inves tigation of the case. he submits that the prosecution has failed to prove its page case against the accused respondent beyond any reasonable doubt. the learned chief court has rightly dismissed the appeal of the petitioner while passing the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned counsel for the respondent submits that the said impugned judgment is well reasoned and well founded which may graciously be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned .. the learned chief court as well as the .. the learned accountability court. the learned prosecutor nab could not point out any infirmity and illegality in the impugned order the learned chief court. in our considered view the impugned order is well reasoned and well founded interference into it by his court is not warranted. in view of the above discussions, this appeal was dismissed vide our short ... consequently, the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned chief court was affi rmed. these were the reasons of said short order. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. page