page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. cr. appeal no. cr. appeal no. cr. appeal no. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla. no. cr. pla. no. cr. pla. no. cr. pla. no. the state petitioner. iftikhar hussain son of muhammad ishaq aliabad tehsil aliabad district hunza nagar in criminal appeal no. the state petitioner. i. irfan karim son of karamat aliabad tehsil aliabad district hunza nagar. ii. salman karim son of ibrahim khan iii. ahmad khan son of ibadat khan iv. ghulam abass son of muhammad v. amir ali son of amir hayat in criminal appeal no. the state petitioner. i. sarfraz son of ghulam musa altit hunza tehsil aliabad district hunza nagar ii. rashid minhas anees son of abdul mateen ii. aleem ullah khan son of taighon shah iii. sher khan son of hamadullah baig iv. irfan ali son of arman shah v. shukurullah alias methoo son of amanullah vi. musa baig son of abdur rehman in criminal appeal no. the state petitioner. baba jan son of abdullah baig nasir abad, hunza tehsil aliabad district hunza nagar criminal appeal no. page charge un der section ,,, -a ppc section haraba of the offence against property (hudood) ordinance section -l and of the anti terrorism act vide fir no. of police station aliabad hunza. criminal leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) rder, read with enabling articles of supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan rules against acquittal order .. gilgit -baltistan chief court in criminal appeals no. and whereby accepting the appeals of respondent conviction order judgment of anti terrorism court gilgit -baltistan dated .. passed in tc no. has been set aside and respondent accused acquitted from the charges. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the petitioner state. to .. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgme nt. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... (). since all the above criminal appeals have been arisen out of the common impugned .. in criminal appeals no. and under fir no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief page court and the same were disposed of by this court through a common consolidated short ... the brief facts of the case are that an fir no. was registered at police station aliabad hunza against the aforementioned respondent alongwith other rio ters accused on .. with the allegation of leading rioters and putting on fire government vehicles, police station building, destroying government properties, police record, looting police ammunition through breaking police koth police mal hana and record room and delivered anti state speech slogans, setting on fire police station police vehicles causing damages to government properties and attacking on public servants, creating haraba causing hurt to police personnels. the prosecuti on after conducting investigation and recording oral as well as documentary evidence alongwith circumstantial, medical and expert evidence, which fully corroborated the prosecution version and submitted the challan before the learned trial court. in the ch allan the investigating officer of the case narrated again the same facts. the sho police station aliabad stated that the internally displaced persons (idps) gathered in front of the united bank limited (ubl) for demanding payment of money so granted to them as compensation being effectees of attabad lake disaster, started shouting against the ubl authorities. subsequently page some other people of the area started gathering who instigated each other which become an uncontrolled mob. in the meantime a group of ioters led by accused baba jan nasir abad, ahmed khan shishkat, sultan ishaq sirt, imam dad, sahib khan, muhammad shah, ali gohar, deedar hussain shah gul hayat sirt, raheem muhammad, iftikhar shishkat got violent and attacked the polic station aliabad and started beating fc abdul qayyum who was present on gate and fc saleem, hc wazeer aman, fc saifullah, fc ayub and fc zafar iqbal present in police station aliabad. they put on fire government vehicle (datson) bearing no. glt -a wh ich was parked inside the police station. after that the violent mob gathered inside the police station and burnt into ashes all the record and documents of the police station, case files and case properties kept in malkhana. they also broke the koth malkh ana and looted the ammunition kept in koth nos semi rifles, rounds, rounds of rounds of .62mm, rounds of mp5, rounds of pistol bore, spare magazine of every kind of weapon and necessary items of ammunition and ammunition for pl which includes smg nos, bore pistol nos with spare magazines and necessary articles, arp which included smg nos, gas guns nos, shells bags and ammunition of police station which included one gas gun, shell nos, hand grenade boxes and also put on fire the page uniform of the police personnel, their beddings, boxes and all the items. whereafter they also put on fire the government vehicle of police station gulmit parked inside the workshop situated in front of police station aliabad. af ter that the police station and sho house was also put on fire and then the violent mob advanced towards bazar. the complainant alongwith the other police personnel in the police station did try to prevent the accused by tear gas but they became uncontroll able and have damaged the government property including the building of police station aliabad costing millions of rupees. after completion of the investigation conducted by the jit, first incomplete challan was submitted on .. in the learned tr ial court. however some of them were released by the police under section cr. pc placing their names in column no. of the challan. proclaimed offender absconder accused ameer ali was arrested on .. and proclaimed offender absconder accused ra shid minhas was arrested on ... accused sarfraz was arrested on .. and another incomplete challan was submitted in the trial court on ... it was also reported in the back of the said challan that proclaimed offender absconder accus ed fazal son of gohar hayat aliabad has committed suicide. on .. proclaimed offender absconder accused musa baig driver son of abdur rehman shishkat page gojal was arrested and incomplete challan expw a was submitted before trial court on ... however, on .. proclaimed offender absconder accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo was also arrested and incomplete challan expw was submitted before trial court on ... accused iftikhar hussain, irfan karim, irfan ali, salman karim, sher khan, baba jan, aleemullah khan, ahmad khan, ghulam abbas, amir ali, rashid minhas anees and sarfraz were formally charged on .. wherein all the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. charge of proclaimed offender absconder accused namely meher ali, mithoo, nasir, musa baig and deedar ali was also framed by the learned -terrorism court no -ii gilgit -baltistan on .. wherein the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. as per learned trial court the pro secution to prove their case against the accused produced and examined prosecution witnesses (pws). after closing the prosecution evidence the present accused were examined under section cr.pc. the accused denied to record their statements on oat under section () cr.pc in disproof of the charged leveled against them. the accused also denied to produce any dw in their defense except accused baba jan who provided names of dws to be page examined. accordingly the statements of dws numberdar juma kha n, shukurullah baig and muzaffar -ud-din shah were recorded. as per learned trial court the prosecution had relied on the following categories of evidences: i. ocular evidence ii. circumstantial evidence iii. confessional statement of accused iv. recoveries v. medical evidence vi. absconsion. as per prosecution it was a daylight occurrence and the fir had been lodged promptly. the accused were nominated and charged in the promptly lodged fir and specific role were attributed to the accused. the confessional statement of respondent accused have been recorded under section -h of the anti -terrorism act, wherein respondent accused iftikhar hussain, accused baba jab, accused ahmed khan, accused ameer ali, accused irfan karim, accused irfan ali, accused salman kari m, accused sher khan, accused aleemullah khan, accused ahmad khan, accused ghulam abbas, accused amir ali, accused rashid minhas anees accused musa baig and accused sarfraz had voluntarily confessed their guilt. investigation officer has recovered magazi nes of smg and live rounds of mm on the pointation of the accused iftikhar hussain in presence of magistrate. the other recoveries of crime articles were also page made on the pointation of the accused respondent in presence of the learned magistrate. that the medico legal reports and injury sheets of injured police officials proved that the accused have attacked on police station and had burnt the police station aliabad and the accused had also put on fire the government vehicle no. glt-a th at after fulfilling the legal requirements accused meher ali, accused deedar ali and driver nasir have been declared as proclaimed offenders under section () of the anti -terrorist act, and their absconsions is fully proved and the respondent acc used have given a huge loss to the government exchequer. the learned trial court discussed the prosecution evidence one by one as under: (i). (pw-) head constable muhammad ismail is an injured eye witness of the occurrence. the said pw stated in the examination -in-chief the the mob entered in the police station and broke the window of the kitchen and entered inside the building of police station. the said pw further stated that among them i recognized iftikhar hussain, irfan karim, irfan ali, salman karim, sher khan, aleemullah khan, ahmad khan, ghulam abbas and mithoo etc the said pw further stated that the government property and the personal belongings of police officials were destroyed iftikhar alongwith other persons proceeded towards the koth (mall page khana) and after some they came back holding weapons etc the said pw further stated that when i reached the field near the sho house, some persons, who had covered their faces, started beating me. i was injured and managed to reach murtaza abad in a truck, where i got a taxi and went to asqurdass dispensary, where some injured police officials were admitted. i got some treatment and the next day i went to home. the said specifically charged and nominated the above named accused. in his cross examination the said pw stated that, i knew the persons named as accused by me, prior to the occurrence. the said pw further stated in his cross examination that, i know accuse iftikhar right, when i assumed my duties in hunza. despite lengthy cross examination, the learned defence counsel has failed to shatter the said pw, rather he himself got clarified and confirmed from the said pw about the identity of nominated accused a mentioned by the said pw in his examination -in-chief above. ocular version furnished by the said injured witness is fully corroborated with the statements of pw -, pw -, pw -, pw-, pw -, pw and medical evidence and also corroborated with the conf essional statement of accused. the statement of the said pw is worth of credence and confidence inspiring and believable. page (ii). (pw-) rehmatullah baig has been declared hostile. (iii). (pw-) ghulam jaffar had been declared hostile, but in his exami nation -in-chief and his cross examination the said pw has confirmed the facts regarding setting on fire the police pickup by the rioters near the police station. the said pw stated that in his examination -in-chief that when i returned back to workshop, wh ere the police pickup was not found there. it was being set on fire near the police station. in his cross examination the said pw stated the when i came back to my workshop, the police pickup was put on fire and few persons were present there. although the said pw has been declared hostile, but the said pw has confirmed regarding putting on fire the police pickup by the rioters at the time of occurrence. mere declaring a witness hostile does not shatter the reality of his evidence and such witness does ot loose his credibility. it is an admitted fact that the police pickup has been burnt by the accused of the instant case, as such, i consider this statement of the said pw regarding the facts of the case and hold it, as corroborative piece of evidence against the accused. the statement of the said pw is fully corroborated with the statement pw -. (iv). (pw-) muhammad yaseen is the eye witness of the occurrence. the said pw stated in his examination -in-chief that when i went out of the police station to see what was happening, i found that the mob was chanting slogans against page police. the mob was equipped with stones and sticks etc the said pw further stated that i saw iftikhar hussain and ahmed khan among the mob. after a while smoke started emittin from the police station. in his cross -examination the said pw stated that, almost all the participants of the mob were carrying sticks and stones. the said pw further stated that, i do not know the participants of the mob, except the accused person. despite lengthy cross -examination, the learned defense counsel have failed to shatter the said pw, rather they themselves got confirmed and verified from the said pw about the presence of accused, with stones and sticks at the place of occurrence. (v). (pw-) raja baba khan sp (rtd) is the eye witness, who has recorded the confessional statement expw a of accused ghulam abbas and confessional statement expw of accused ahmed khan under section -h of the anti -terrorist act, the said pw has verified and authenticated the onfessional statements expw a of accused ghulam abbas and confessional statement expw of accused ahmed khan which is reproduced as under:- page page the place of occurren ce on the pointation of accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo. in his examination -in-chief the said pw stated that, in my presence, accused shukurullah baig stated that, he has pelting stones from the point no. of the site plan to the kitchen. on the pointation of accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo, ip safdar has prepared site plan expw a in my presence. the site plan expw a bears my signature and its contents are correct. while preparation of site plan in presence of the said pw accused shuk urullah baig has made extra judicial confessional before the said pw (magistrate). the extra judicial confessional made by the accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo before the said pw, the said pw has narrated before this court as quoted above. the extra -e-shahadat in his cross -exam ination the said pw stated that, the site plan expw a has been prepared at the place of occurrence. the said pw further stated that, i affixed my seal office stamp on site plan expw a on same day at police station. the learned defence counsel himse lf got confirmed from the said pw about the preparation of sit plan expw a at the place of occurrence, which is corroborative page piece of evidence against accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo. the said pw has confirmed and authenticated the site plan expw a of the plan of occurrence. the statement of the said pw is fully corroborated with the statement of pw and also corroborated with confessional statement expw a of accused shukurullah baig. the testimony of the said pw is worth of credence and con fidence inspiring and believable. (vii). up hc muhammad akram baig pw -) is the injured eye witness of the occurrence. the said pw stated in his examination in -chief that on .., i was on duty at control room at police station aliabad. at about hours the rioters attacked the police station aliabad. the said pw further stated that the rioters pelting stones at the door of police station, till hours and then they entered in the police station. the rioters set the police station on fire an after breaking koth the ammunitions were taken. the said pw further stated that i recognized the accused among the rioters namely baba jan, accused iftikhar hussain, accused aleem, accused fazal, accused ghulam abbas, accused ahmad khan and another an ac cused whose name i do not remember now were present at the time of occurrence. the said pw has specifically charged and nominated the above named accused who has participated in the commission of the offence of the instance case. page upon asking question by in this regard a court note has been given in the cross examination of the said pw, which is reproduced as under: court note: the pw came out from the witness box and put his hand on the shoulder of the accused aleemullah and identified before the court in his cross -examination the said pw further stated that, at the time of occurrence, beside me hc muhammad ismail, hc wazir aman, sgc ali ahmed jan, fc naeemullah, fc ghulam abbas and some reserve personnel were also present in police station aliabad. de spite lengthy cross examination the learned defence counsel has failed to shatter the said pw, rather he himself got confirmed from the said pw about the presence of the above named eye witnesses on spot at the time of occurrence. ocular version furnish ed by the said injured witness is fully corroborated with the statements of pw -, pw -, pw -, pw-, pw -, pw and medical evidence and also corroborated with the confessional statements of accused. the statement of the said pw is worth of credence and believable. (viii). dr. khawaja khan pw -) is the witness, who has examined injured hc wazir aman, vide injury sheet ex pw--a and also examined injured fc shahid khan vide injury sheet ex. pw b. the said pw has authenticated the injury page sheets pw a ex. pw and confirmed the injuries received by the hc wazir aman pw and fc shahid khan pw. (ix). hc inam ullah (pw -) is the witness of recovery memo ex. pw. a site plan ex. pw of the place of recovery and site plan ex. pw of the place of oc currence. vide recovery memo ex. pw a on the pointation of accused iftikhar hussain, the io has recovered two magazines of smg and live rounds of mm in presence of the magistrate from the stones of a plot owned by accused iftikhar hussain and al so prepare site plan ex. pw of the place of recovery. on the pointation of accused iftikhar hussain the io has prepared site plan ex.pw of the place of occurrence in presence of magistrate. in his examination -in-chief the said pw said that, in my presence and presence of magistrate accused iftikhar hussain disclosed that he and his co -accused ameer ali, meher ali, sultan jan and mithoo after broken the koth of police station aliabad and distributed the arms and ammunitions by the above named accused. the accused further disclosed that the arms ammunitions were also distributed among fazal karim and sher khan etc. in his cross -examination the said pw stated that, the ammunitions were taken into possession by ip muhammad izzat on the point ation accused. the said pw further stated that, the site plan expw was prepared ip muhammad page izzat in my presence in presence of magistrate. the said learned defence counsel for accused iftikhar hussain himself got confirmed the said pw about the rec overy of ammunitions on the pointation of accused iftikhar hussain and also confirmed the preparation of site plan expw in presence of the said pw and magistrate. the said pw has confirmed and authenticated the recovery memo expw a, site plan expw of the place of recovery and site plan expw of the place of occurrence. the statement of the said pw is fully corroborated with the statements of pw -, pw and pw the statement of the said pw is worth of credence and believable. (x). (pw-) hc wazir aman is the witness of recovery memo expw a, site plan expw of the place of recovery and site plan expw of the place of occurrence. the said pw is also witness of recovery memos expw b. expw c. vide recovery memo expw a th io has taken into his possession live rounds of mm on the pointation of accused iftikhar hussain in presence of magistrate and also prepared site plan expw of place of the recovery. vide site plan expw co of the place of occurrence, accused iftikhar hussain had disclosed the place and points of the place of occurrence in presence of magistrate (pw -). vide recovery memo expw a the io has taken into his possession one page dvd sony gilgit -baltistan, mm and the io has also taken into is possession dvd vide recovery memo expw and one cd vide recovery memo expw c. in his cross -examination the said pw stated that, on the pointation accused iftikhar hussain the io izzat has recovered alive rounds of .62mm, which were conce aled by the accused in the stones. the place of recovery is a plot of accused iftikhar hussain, surrounded by the gardens in three sides and one side graveyards. the learned defence counsel for accused iftikhar hussain himself got confirmed from the said pw about the recovery of alive rounds on the pointation of accused iftikhar hussain in presence of magistrate. the recovery is a corroborative piece of evidence, which is proved against accused iftikhar hussain. the said pw has confirmed and authenticat ed the recovery memo expw a, site plan expw of the place of recovery and site plan expw of the place of occurrence. the statement of the said pw is fully corroborated with the statement pw -, pw -, pw- and pw and also corroborated with the confessional statement expw a of accused iftikhar hussain. (xi) (pw-) naeemullah is an injured eye witness of the occurrence and is also witness of recovery memo expw a, expw b. in his examination -in-chief said pw stated that, in the meanwhil the mob came from eastern side and attacked on police station. the mob was leaded by accused page baba jan nasir abad. the members of mob, accused iftikhar hussain, accused ahmed khan, accused ghulam abbas were pelting stones on police station. the said pw further stated that, the members of mob brought the government vehicle from workshop and set on fire in front of police station. the members of mob also set on fire the vehicle of sip muhammad ilyas. the rioter broken the window of the kitchen of polic station and entered in the police station. the said pw further stated that i identified accused iftikhar hussain, accused ghulam abbas, accused ahmed khan etc, who entered in the police station. from the roof side accused aleemullah khan entered in the police station. the said pw further stated that the rioters set on fire, government vehicle, which was parked inside the police station. the rioters set on fire belonging of the police officials. the pw further stated that i received injuries. the has specifically charged and nominated the accused named above. in his cross -examination the said pw stated that, i know accused baba jan, accused iftikhar hussain, accused ahmed khan, accused ghulam abbas and accused aleem about years prior to th occurrence, when i was in police. the learned defence counsel got clarified from the said pw about the identity of the above named accused. ocular version furnished by the said injured witness is fully corroborated with the statement of pw -, pw -, pw-, page pw-, pw -, and pw pw and also corroborated with the confessional statements of accused. the statement of the said pw is worth of credence and believable. (xii). (pw-) hc talib hussain is the witness of site plans expw a of the place of occurrence, recovery memo expw b, site plan expw of place of recovery and recovery memo expw d. vide site plan expw a of the place of occurrence, accused sarfraz has disclosed the place and point of the place of occurrence in presence of agistrate (pw -). vide recovery memo expw b, the io recovered live rounds of on the pointation of accused sarfraz from beneath the stones near altit bridge in presence of magistrate (pw -) and the io has prepared site plan expw of the plac of recovery. vide recovery memo expw d, the io took into his possession a cd, which was prepared by photographer shahid hussain and also confirmed the recovery rounds. in his cross -examination the said pw stated that, magistrate was also with us. accused was also with us in the vehicle. the said pw further stated that. at the time of recovery the accused was set at liberty. the rounds were taken by the accused sarfraz and handed over to ip izzat. the learned defence counsel himself got confirmed from the said pw about the presence of magistrate at the time of recovery. the said pw has confirmed and verified the site plan expw page a of the place of occurrence, recovery memo expw site plan expw of the place of recovery and recovery memo ex pw- d. the statement of the said pw is fully corroborated with the statement of pw and pw -. (xiii). (pw -) asi javed alam is the witness of recovery memo expw a, expw b, expw c, expw d. vide recovery memo expw a, the io took into hi possession bore shot gun no.nil, pak made from accused sher khan in presence of magistrate, vide recovery memo expw b, the io recovered one from accused salman. vide recovery memo expw c, the io recovered one bore pistol bearing no. tear gas gun dsa542, smg bore rifle no. nil from the courtyard of central jammat khana aliabad. vide recovery memo expw d, the io took into his possession from the courtyard of central jammat khana aliabad one rifle bearing no. -, semi rifle bearing no. smg bearing pistol bore no. one -bore pistol no. nos. magazines smg, hand grenade numbers, one repeater bearing no. msc -, one shot gun china and bore pistol no. nil. in his cross -examination on the question of learned defence counsel for accused sher khan the said pw stated that, it is correct that accused sher khan has handed over bore no. nil, in the jammat khana. the learned defence page judge, the said pw has complied with all the requirements of law. the said pw has asked the material questions from the accused and the same are available in the onfessional statement of the accused alongwith his replies. the said pw has also appended the required certificates with confessional statement of the accused. it is pertinent to mention here that the said pw is not associated with the investigation of the instant case. after satisfying himself the learned the said pw has confirmed and authenticated the confessional statement ex -pw- a. (xv). (pw -) uphc ali ah med jan is an injured eye witness of the occurrence. the said pw stated in his examination -in-chief that, on .., i was on duty at aliabad police station. the said pw stated that, the rioters started pelting stones on the police station. the rioters broken window of kitchen on entered in police station. a vehicle was parked in police station; the rioters set ablaze the said vehicle. the said pw further stated that, among the rioters, who entered in the police station, were accused baba jan, ifti khar, sultan jan, irfan, amir ali, ahmed khan and fazal. the accused also holding bottles containing patrol in their hands. the said accused page set on fire the police station. the said pw further stated that, accused iftikhar hussain and amir ali have koth of police station and distributed the arms and ammunitions among the rioters. the said pw further stated that, accused fazal has started firing with the government arms, while accused iftikhar hussain was holding arms and ammunitions in his hand. the sa id pw has given a true picture of occurrence. the said pw has specifically attributed the role played by the accused. in his cross -examination the said pw stated that, there were many people, who entered in the police station except the present accused the other rioters, who entered in police station, are not present in the court alongwith the present accused. the said pw further stated that, the nominated accused were pelting stones on police station and burning the articles of police station. all th rioters were having similar role as attributed to the nominated accused. despite lengthy cross -examination the learned defence counsel have failed the shatter the said pw, rather they themselves got confirmed and clarified from the said pw about the pre sence of the nominated accused at the place of occurrence and also confirmed the role played by the accused nominated in examination -in-chief of the said pw. page ocular version furnished by the said injured witness is fully corroborated with the statements pw-, pw- pw -, pw -, pw -, pw and medical evidence and also corroborated with the confessional statements of accused. the statement of the said pw is worth of credence and believable. (xvi). (pw -) (rtd) gulzar hussain is an eye witness of occurr ence and also witness, who has registered fir expw a and prepared site plan expw and prepared recovery memo expw a. in his examination -in-chief the said pw stated that, on .., i was present in police station aliabad. at about hou rs, rioters in supervision of accused baba jan, imam dad, sultan hassan shah gul hayat and iftikhar hussain, the rioters have attacked on police station. the rioters set on fire the govt. vehicle, which was parked inside the police station. they attac ked on koth and taken the govt. arms and ammunitions and the rioters set on fire the personal commodities of police personnel, which consisting of clothes, uniforms, beds etc. in his cross -examination the said pw stated that, i personally know the acc used baba jan and iftikhar husain. the learned defence counsel got confirmed and page said pw has complied with all the requirements of law and made the statement voluntarily. the said pw has asked the material questions from the accused and the same are available in the confe ssional statement of accused alongwith his replies. the said pw has been appended the required certificate with the confessional statement of accused. it is pertinent to mention here that the said pw is not associated with the investigation of the instant case. after satisfying himself the learned the said pw has confirmed and authenticated the confessional statement expw a. (xviii). (pw -) hc muhammad ismail has already been examined as pw -. i have thoroughly discussed about the evidentiary value of statement of the said pw. xix. (pw-) hc wazir aman has already been examined as pw -. i have discussed the evidentiary value of statement of the said pw. (xx). (pw-) muhammad yaseen already been examined as pw -. i have discussed the evidentiary value of statement of the said pw. (xxi). (pw-) dr. shahidullah baig is the witness, who has examined injured naeemullah baig. page statement have been made by the accused voluntarily which have been recorded by the pw after fulfill ing the legal requirements. after considering the evidence of pw -, in the considered view of the learned the said pw has asked the material questions from the accused and the same were available in the confessional statement of accused alongwith their replies. the said pw has been appended the required certificate with the confessional statement of accused. it is pertinent to mention here that the said pw is not associated with the investigation of the instant case. after satisfying the learned trial court held that the confessional statement made by the accused were voluntarily and true. the said pw ha confirmed and authenticated the confessional statement expw a expw b, expw c, expw d, expw and expw f. (xxiii). (pw-) dr. wali muhammad is the witness, who has examined injured abdul qayyum vide injury sheet expw a and the said pw has also injured saifullah vide injury sheet expw b, injured zafar iqbal vide injury sheet expw and injured sabir hussain vide injury sheet expw d. the said has confirmed and authenticated the opinion given by the said pw in injury sheet expw a of injured abdul qayyum, injury sheet expw of injured saifullah, page injury sheet expw of injured zafar iqbal and injury sheet expw of injured sabir hussain. (xxiv). (pw -) ip safdar ali is the io, who has investigated the case is up to th extent of accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo. the said pw has arrested absconder accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo on ... the said pw has obtained physical remand of the accused from the court. the said pw has prepared site plan expw a the place of occurrence on the pointation of accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo in presence of magistrate and marginal witnesses. the said pw got recorded the confessional statement expw a of accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo under section of the anti -terrorist act, and committed the accused to judicial lockup after obtaining judicial remand from the court. after completion of the investigation the said pw has prepared incomplete challan expw against accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo and submitted before the court through public prosecutor. in his cross -examination the said pw stated that. the site plan has been prepared at the place of occurrence in presence of magistrate. the said pw further stated that, at the time of reparation of site plan wajid karim, mubarak ali and magistrate were alongwith page me, at the time of preparation of site plan on the pointation of accused. the learned defence counsel himself got confirmed from the said pw about the preparation of site plan expw a of the place of occurrence which has been prepared by the said pw on the pointation of accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo in presence of magistrate (pw -). the statement of the said pw is fully corroborated with the statement of pw and also orroborated with the confessional statement expw a of accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo. (xxv). (pw -) magistrate farman ali is the witness of recovery memo expw a vide which, on the pointation of accused iftikhar hussain the io has took into hi possession alive rounds of .62mm and magazines from the plot owned by accused iftikhar hussain and also prepared site plan expw of the place of recovery. the said pw also witness of site plan expw of the place of occurrence. the said pw is also witness of recovery memo expw b, vide which the io has recovered alive rounds of on the pointation of accused sarfraz and prepared site plan expw c. the said pw is also witness of recovery memo expw12 d, vide which the io took into his po ssession one cd. page in his cross -examination made by the learned defence counsel for accused iftikhar hussain the said pw stated that, we proceeded to the place of recovery on food. the said pw further stated that, as per statement of accused iftikhar hu ssain the plot from where the recovery was made belongs to accused iftikhar hussain but no documents were with us to ascertain the ownership of accused iftikhar hussain. in his cross -examination the said pw further stated that, the recovered rounds were counted by me. the rounds were the rounds were of kalashankove. the learned defence counsel himself got confirmed from the said pw about the recovered rounds from accused iftikhar hussain. the said pw has confirmed and authenticated the recovery mem expw a site plan, expw of the place of recovery, site plan expw9 of place occurrence, recovery memo expw b, site plan expw and site plan expw a of the place of occurrence. the statement of the said pw is fully corroborated with the sta tements of pw-, pw and pw -. the evidence of the said pw is worth of credence and believable. (xxvi). (pw -) ip jahangir shah is the witness who has investigated the instant case up to the extent of accused musa baig. the said pw has arrested accuse page were not associated with the investigation of the instant case. after satisfying himself the learned the said pw has confirmed and authenticated the confessional statement expw a, expw and expw of the accused. (xxviii). (pw-) dsp muhammad izzat is the witness who has investigated of the instant case alongwith jit member dsp fida ali. the said pw has recorded the statements of pws under section cr.p.c. on .. the said pw has arrested accused iftikhar hussain and other suspects accused and obtained physical remand from the court. on .. the said pw has obt ained warrant of arrest under section cr.p.c against accused baba jan and other accused. on .. the said pw has arrested accused salman karim, sher khan, javed iqbal and sifat shah and obtained physical remand from the court. the said pw has recovered rounds of mm and magazines of kalashankove. on the pointation of accused iftikhar hussain from his plot and prepared recovery memo expw a and also prepared site plan expw of the place of occurrence in presence of magistrate. the aid pw has also prepared site plan expw of the place of occurrence from the pointation of accused iftikhar hussain in presence of magistrate and the said pw has recorded the statement of marginal witnesses page under section cr.p.c. the said pw has arre sted accused baba jan on .. and obtained physical remand from the court. the said pw has got recorded the confessional statement expw of accused baba jan and committed the accused to judicial lockup. after obtaining judicial remand from the court. the said pw has got recorded the confessional statement of accused salman karim, irfan karim and sher khan and committed the said accused to judicial lockup after obtaining judicial remand. the said pw has arrested accused aleemullah khan and sultan ishaq on .. and obtained physical remand of the accused from the court. the said has got recorded the confessional statement of accused aleemullah khan on .. and committed the accused to judicial lockup. after obtaining judicial remand fro the court. accused ashraf aman, ghulam tahir and ghulam abbas have arrested on ... the said accused has took into his possession to dvds containing clips of the occurrence vide recovery memo expw a and expw b. the said pw has got recorded onfessional statement accused ahmed khan and ghulam abbas under section -h of the anti-terrorist act, and committed the accused to judicial lockup after obtaining judicial remand. after completion of investigation the said pw has prepared in complet challan no. dated .. expw against accused iftikhar hussain and other accused and placing the names of page meher ali and others accused as absconders accused in column no. of the challan. the said pw has arrested accused shukurullah baig, niamat karim and sultan jan on .. and obtained physical remand of the accused from the court. the said pw has arrested accused rashid minhas on .. and obtained physical remand from the court. the said pw has got recorded the confessi onal statement of accused amir ali on .. and committed the accused to judicial lockup on ... the said pw has committed accused rashid minhas to judicial lockup after obtaining judicial remand. the said pw has arrested accused sarfraz on and obtained physical remand of the accused from the court. the said pw has recovered alive rounds of on the pointation of the accused sarfraz and prepared recovery memo expw and also prepared site plan exppw of the place of recove ry. the said pw has also taken to his possession video and prepared recovery memo expw d. the said pw has also prepared site plan expw a of the place of occurrence. the said pw has got recorded the confessional statement of accused sarfraz under sect ion -h of the anti -terrorist act, and committed the accused to judicial lockup after obtaining judicial remand. after completion of investigation incomplete challan expw was prepared on ... page in his cross examination the said pw stated that, the burnt articles were taken into possession by the then ip sho gulzar hussain vide recovery memo expw a. the said pw further stated that, i have conducted the recovery proceeding against iftikhar hussain alongwith jit members. the said pw further stated that, we went to the place of recovery on foot. the place of recovery is situated known as gurman, where is a graveyard situated and the boundary wall of the plot is belonging to the accused iftikhar hussain. the learned defence counsel hi mself got confirmed from the said pw about the recovery of burnt articles and alive rounds from accused iftikhar hussain. the said pw has confirmed and authenticated all the proceedings carried out by him alongwith jit members during the investigation. he statement of the said pw is fully corroborated with the statements of all pws. after closing the prosecution evidence, the learned trial court recorded the statement of accused iftikhar hussain, irfan karim, irfan ali, salman karim, baba jan, aleem u llah khan, ahmed khan, gulam abbas, musa baig, amir ali, sher khan, rashid minhas, sarfraz and shukurullah alias mithoo as provided under section cr.p.c. all the aforementioned accused except baba jan have denied to record their statements on oath u nder section () cr.p.c, in disproof of charges leveled against them. the accused baba jan, however, has produced three () dws page namely numberdar juma khan, shukurullah baig and khan muzaffar -ud-din shah. the statements of the said dws were recorded. rom perusal of the said statements, it reveals that the story narrated by the said dws is not correct in the light of the statement of the accused baba jan recorded before the learned trial court under section cr.p.c. it is pertinent to mention here th at accused baba jan admitted his presence at the place of incident at the relevant time of occurrence in his statement recorded under section cr.p.c before the learned trial court. the learned trial court after hearing the counsel of the respective parties, evaluating the material evidence on record and consequent thereto on proven guilty, has convicted all the above accused respondent under section ,,, -a ppc section haraba of the offence against property (hudood ordinance section -l and of the anti terrorism act and awarded various sentences to them in accordance with law. the operative part of the said judgment is hereby reproduced as under: quote in the light of the above discussio n, i hold that the prosecution has proved the guilt of accused irfan ali, accused baba jan, accused aleemullah khan, accused sher khan, accused rashid minhas, accused sarfraz, accused musa baig, acc used shukurullah baig alias mith oo and page proclaimed offender meher ali, deedar ali and driver nasir for mischief by fire to cause damage to property by fire to destroy house etc, mischief by fore to damage to property, mischief causing damage, house trespass, assault on public servant, bodily hurt to the injured ersons, rioting, haraba (daketi) and create a sense of fear and in security in the area in furtherance of their common object, hence i convict accused iftikhar hussain, accused irfan ali accused baba jan, accused aleemullah khan, accused sher khan, accused rashid minhas, accused sarfraz, accused musa baig, accused shukurullah baig alias mittoo and proclaimed offenders meher ali, deedar ali and driver nasir under section read with section (d) of the anti terrorism act, and sentence them to un dergo rigorous imprisonment for life and the accused to pay fine of (rupees one hundred thousand only) each. the above named accused are also hereby convicted under section ppc and sentence them to undergo () years imprisonment and the a ccused to pay fine of rs. (rupees one hundred thousand only) each. i convict the above named accused under section ppc and sentence them to undergo years imprisonment. the above named accused are also convicted under section ppc and sentenced them to undergo one year imprisonment. i convict the accused iftikhar hussain, accused irfan ali, accused baba jan, accused aleemullah khan, accused sher khan accused rashid minhas, accused sarfraz, accused musa baig, acc used shukurullah baig alias mith oo and page proclaimed offenders maher ali, deedar ali and driver nasir under section ppc read with section (h) of the anti-terrorism act, and sentence them to undergo years imprisonment. the above named accused are also convicted un der section ppc and sentenced them to undergo imprisonment for years. i convict the above named accused under section -a ppc and sentence them to pay daman of rs. (rupees one hundred thousand only) and the above named accused a re also convicted and sentenced to undergo years imprisonment as ta zir. the above named accused are also convicted under section (c) of the anti -terrorism act and sentenced them to pay daman of rs. (rupees one hundred thousand only) each and sentenced them to undergo years imprisonment as ta zir the amount of the daman shall be paid to the injured persons. i convict the accused iftikhar hussain, accused irfan ali, accused baba jan, accused aleemullah khan, accused sher khan, ac cused rashid minhas accused sarfraz, accused musa baig, accused shukurullah baig alias mith oo and proclaimed offenders maher ali, deedar ali, and driver nasir under section offence against property (enforcement of hudood) ordinance read with se ction ppc and section (d) of the anti -terrorism act and sentence them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for ten () years and to pay fine of rs. (rupees one hundred thousand only) each. in default of payment of fine, the above page name convicts -accused, shall undergo two years imprisonment. proclaimed offenders absconder accused maher ali, deedar ali and driver nasir are hereby convicted under section -l of the anti -terrorism act and sentenced them to undergo ten years imprisonment before parting with the file. it is pertine nt to mention here that the convicts -accused have given a heavy loss to the government exchequer by putting on fire the police station aliabad and two government vehicles and have taken the arms and ammunitions from the mall khana of police station aliabad. the convicts -accused are responsible for the damages given to the government exchequer. hence, the cost of all the damages be recovered from the convicts -accused, as an arrear of land revenue, as per assessment and be deposited into the government treas ury. unquote (). the learned chief court while hearing appeals filed some of the respondent against their conviction recorded by the learned anti -terrorism court vide .. in criminal appeal no. allowed the appeals and set aside the judgment of the learned trial court. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court was pleased to observe that: from perusal of prosecution evidence, it is evident that the learned trial court did not rely on the whole statement of any of the pw s. so the views and findings of the learned trial page court are against the principle of acceptance of whole of the statement of any pw or discarding the whole. the learned trial court has on the one hand accepted part statement of pws against some of the co -accused of the appellant and has discarded the other parts of the statement of pws regarding some accused. this view of the learned trial court is without any explanation on his part to that effect. the pws, who have even charged the appellant, have stated about mere presence of the appellant in the mob. mere presence of the appellant at the place of occurrence is never sufficient to prove that he shared the common object of the unlawful assembly. further the prosecution evidence does not show any circu mstance or circumstances showing attraction of the offences of section of anti -terrorism act and offence of section of offences against property (enforcement of hudood) ordinance the learned trial court has very wrongly tried the appellant for the said offences although none of the pws have stated in proof of any circumstance or occasion that showed involvement of the appellant for the said offences. we are of the opinion that the circumstances of the case stated by the pws constituted the case in hand, hardly a case of offences of section ,, and ppc and that also without any concrete evidence against the appellant. the prosecution evidence hardly shows page presence of appellant on the place of occurrence but without showing any role of the appellant in commission of the alleged occurrence of even the above referred offences. the second piece of evidence is the circumstantial evidence. in the case in hand, once it is established that reading of ocular evidence against he appellant is not only insufficient in the above circumstances but is wrong also. in such circumstances, circumstantial evidence is not only of no worth but also is irrelevant against the appellant. the learned trail court has accepted the statement of he appellant recorded under section of anti -terrorism act, and have read the same against the appellant. in our opinion, accepting or reading the confessional statement of appellant recorded under section -h of anti -terrorism act, is really astonishing as the superior courts of our country have repeatedly held such statement as not admissible and irrelevant against the appellant. the prosecution has leveled allegation of looting the weapons and cartridges from koth (mall khana) of police tation. in this connection, we do not find any evidence showing that the police has stored any weapons in the said koth (mall khana). in our opinion, the prosecution is bound to prove that they had stored the weapons, allegedly looted by the appellant, in the koth (mall khana) of police station. without such proof, merely alleging page that the looted articles were stored in the koth (mall khana) is never any proof of any theft or looting etc. as to medical evidence, mere proof of any injuries to any person is not sufficient to hold that the same were caused by the appellant. pws are not stating about causing any injury by appellant to the person or persons examined by the medical officer. so the medical report is not against appellant. in the sequel of ab ove discussion, we hold that the impugned order is very bad in the eye of law and merits reversal. we allow this appeal and set aside im pugned conviction and sentence. the learned advocate general submits that basically it was an unlawful assembly led by all the respondents. according to the section 147and section ppc every member of the said unlawful assembly is equally responsible for their common object of that assembly. he specially referred and readout the said sections which for convenience are hereby reproduced as under: section unlawful assembly. --- an assembly of five or more persons is designated an unlawful assembly if the common object of the persons composing that assembly is: first. to overawe by criminal force, or show of criminal force, the central or any provincial government or legislator, or any public servant in the exercise of the lawful power of such public servant; or second. to resist the execution of any law, or of any legal process: or third. to commit any mischief or criminal trespass, or other offence, or forth. by means of criminal force, or show of criminal force to any person to take or obtain possession of any property or to deprive any person of the enjoyment of a right of way, of the use water or page other incorporeal right of which he is in possession or enjoyment, or to enforce any right or supposed right; or fifth. by means of criminal force, or show of criminal force, to compel any person to do what he is not legally bound to do or to omit to do what he is legally entitled to do. section being member of unlawful assembly. -----whoever, being aware of facts which render any assembly an unlawful assembly, intentionally joints that assembly, or continue in it is said to be a member of an unlawful assembly. section punishment.-----whoever is a member of an unlawful assembly, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six month, or with fine, or with both. section joining or continuing in unlawful assembly, knowing that it has been commanded to disperse. -----whoever joins or continues in unlawful assembly, knowing that such unlawful assembly has been commanded in the manner prescribed by law or disperse shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to tow years, or with fine or with bot h. section rioting. whenever force or violence is used by an unlawful assembly, or by any member thereof in prosecution of the common object of such assembly, every member of such assembly is guilty of the offence of rioting. section punis hment of rioting .. whoever is guilty of rioting shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both. section every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object.___ if an offence is committed by any member of an unlawful assembly in prosecution of the common object of that assembly, or such as the members of the assembly knew to be likely to be committed in prosecution of that objec t, every person who, at the time of the committing of that offence, is a member of the same assembly, is guilty of that offence. he further submits that the presence of the respondent in all the state aforementioned appeals have been admitted by the respondent themselves in their confessional statements etc which corroborated by the injured prosecution witnesses and the superinten dent of police who recorded their statements under section -h of the anti -terrorism act page .admittedly the recoveries of the crime articles were affected on the pointation of the respondent which is admissible under article of the qanoon -e-shahadat order he further contends that the ocular and circumstantial evidence coupled with medical evidence connects the chain committing crime by the respondent in all appeals, causing by the rioters of the unlawful assembly. all the respondent in all app eals played similar role and jointly participated in setting on fire the government vehicles, police station alongwith pakistan flag, police uniform, records, other government properties etc and looted the arms and ammunition thereto. the police personals were attacked, injured, humiliated and disgraced publically. all the respondent have failed to point out any enmity of police with them. the learned advocate general contends that now it is well recognized principle of dispensation of criminal a laxity, if any, on the part of investigation officer (io), which is an irregularity cannot, demolish the prosecution case. he also contended that the learned trial court has rightly relied upon a case reported in p.cr.lj that: procedural defect or irregularities and even illegalities in the course of investigation shall not demolish the prosecution case. page furthermore admittedly it was a day light occurrence and the eye witnesses have specifically mentioned the part attributed to the accused in their statement. he also contended that the learned trial court while convicting the respondent has rightly relied upon the case reported in -scmr- that: the court approach, while appraising the evidence, should be dynamic and not static. it should keep in view all the facts and circumstances of the case and if it is satisfied that factually the person charged with the offence has committed the same, it should record the conviction though there might have been some technical lapses on the part of the investigation agency prosecution, provided the same have not prejudiced the accused in the fair trial. the learned advocate general submits that the learned trial court has rightly convicted the respondent namely iftikhar hussain, accused irfan ali accused baba jan, accused aleemullah khan, accused sher khan, accused rashid minhas, accused sarfraz, accused musa baig, accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo and proclaimed offenders meher ali, deedar ali and driver nasir whereas the learned trial court has wrongly acquitted accused respondent irfan karim, salman karim, ahmed khan, ghulam abbas and ameer ali who have played the similar role in ommission of the offence who are liable to be convicted and be awarded sentences and fine according to law. page in support of above contentions the learned advocate general relied upon the following case laws: i. surendra others the state of u ttarpardesh scmr sc of india). ii. afzal another the state scmr ). iii. rashid ahmed the state, (shariat appellate jurisdiction) scmr ), iv. muhammad altaf and others the state scmr ). v. shafqat ali and others liaqat ali others scmr ). vi. saee others the state scmr ). vii. nallamsety yanadalah others state of andhra pradesh (scmr ). viii. naveed hussain the state pcr. lj gilgit -baltistan chief court. ix. gulbaz the state y.l.r ). x. imran ashraf others the state scmr ). on the other hand to and submits that this is case of clear acquittal as the foundation of the fir no. has broken into pieces and the same has lost its existence. they further submits that according to the fir there were more than accused rioters amongst them only accused have been implicated out of which have been released by the police under section cr.p.c while accused have been acquitted by the learned trial court page whereas the convicted accused were entitled for the same treatment under the law on the principle of consistency. they contended that the foundation of the said fir has been damaged and the same ultimately lost its existence. they further submit that the prosecution has recorded statements of twenty eight () prosecution witnesses (pws) and none of them have charged the accused assigning them specific roles in creating violence, instigating, rioting and burning the government properties during that occurrence. moreover, the statements of the pws are contradictory with eac other and the whole story based on presumption and hearsay. they also submit that the occurrence took place after death of the two persons as they were protesting for nonpayment of grants to the internally displaced persons (idps) on account of compensa tion to the affectees of the attaabad lake calamity. they argued that no pw mentioned the death of the two deceased who have been killed by the police and resultantly the mob had become aggressive and provoked by the police itself and it was a natural act to react by the mob after death of the two private persons. they submit that the unlawful assembly of the people was there on account of the protest as their cheques were being bounced and the mere presence of the present respondent on the spot does not ontribute any offence. the case is full of doubts and the prosecution has miserably failed to bring home a case against the respondent page beyond reasonable doubts. they also contended that benefit of doubt, if any, always goes to the accused and not to the prosecution. the learned trial court did not consider this aspect of the case and has wrongly awarded punishments to respondents. consequent thereto, the .. the learned anti -terrorism court was not sustainable and the learne chief court .. in criminal appeals no. and has rightly set aside the same being not well founded. they also contended that the accused are idps of attaabad lake and the instant case is based on political victimization. they further contended that the occurrence of the instant case is not pre -planned and pw sp baba khan has identified accused baba jan and accused iftikhar hussain instead of gulam abbas and accused ahmed khan. they further contend ed that there are contradictions between the statements of sp baba khan and sp tufail as well as the statements of recovery witnesses. they further contended that the belated recoveries of crime articles are fake as the recovery magistrate mentioned time as am while other witnesses stated that it was clock and the other pws says that it was am, am or am respectively. they also contend that pw sp tufail also stated that he has recorded the confessional statements of accused iftikhar hussain etc while sp baba khan also claimed page that he has recorded the confessional statement of the said accused. they further contended that injured person pws have not been examined at the nearest hospital at karimabad rather they have got treate more than km away at asqurdass. they also contended that no accused except accused iftikhar hussain has been arrested at the place of occurrence near police station aliabad. they further contended that injuries shown on the police personnel are als fake as per statement of pw dr. shahidullah baig. they finally argued that the .. the learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded, hence, no interference is warranted into it and the same is required to be ma intained to meet the ends of while arguing so they relied upon the case laws i.e. (i).pld sc (ii). pcr. lj (iii) pld sc (iv) scmr (v) pld sc we have heard the learned counsels for he respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned judgments of both the court below. the case laws cited by both the learned counsels have also been perused. the case laws cited by the learned advocate gener al are applicable whereas the case laws relied upon by the learned counsels for the respondent are distinguishable. page we have been fortified with the case laws referred by the learned advocate general wherein the all the facts circumstances of the case should be kept in view if a member of an unlawful assembly is committed the offence. the conviction should be recorded without going into technical flaws made by the investigating agency. in case surendra others the state of uttarpardesh (supra) it is held that the legal position is well established that inference of common object has to be drawn from various factors such as the weapons with which the members were armed, their movements, the acts of violence committed by them and the result. we are satisfied that the prosecution from the entirety of the evidence, has been able to establish that all the members of the unlawful assembly acted in furtherance of the common object. in case titled afzal another the state (supra) it is held that all the respondent alongwith others have formed unlawful assembly and attacked complainant party, injured to the pws. the respondent by virtue of the vicarious liability would be equally responsible for th commission of the offence under section and ppc as the respondent failed to convince that either testimony of the page injured witnesses was unreliable or the participation of the petitioner in the occurrence was doubtful, in case titled rashid ahme the state (supra). it is held that the prosecution has brought on record truthful and convincing evidence of the complainant and injured eye -witness. it has been proved that forming unlawful assembly and with common object in the commission of off ence, in case titled muhammad altaf five others the state (supra). it is held that every member of unlawful assembly to be equally charged for committing the offence with a common object, in case titled shafqat ali others liaqat ali oth ers (supra) it is held that accused forming unlawful assembly duly armed with common object, the presence of the accused at the spot testified by eye -witness and participation in the commission of the offence equally fell within mischief under section ppc, in case titled saee others the state (supra), it is held that out of rioters, were mentioned as accused and rest could not be identified, then all the accused would share the same responsibility under section ppc, in case titled nallamsety yanadalah other the state of andhra pradesh (supra), it is held that for the application of section ipc, the prosecution has to prove the presence and participation of each one in an unlawful assembly, in case titled imran ashraf others the state (supra), it is held that the court approach, while page appraising the evidence, should be dynamic and not static. it should keep in view all the facts and circumstances of the case and if it is satisfied that factually the perso charged with the offence has committed the same, it should record the conviction though there might have been some technical lapses on the part of the investigation agency prosecution, provided the same have not prejudiced the accused in the fair trial. in case titled naveed hussain the state gilgit baltistan chief court, (supra) it is held that confessional statement of accused, after the amendment in section -h of anti-terrorism act, whereby a proviso had been added to the section, legisl ature had made it mandatory that statement under said section would be admissible in evidence, which has to be read with the provision of section of anti -terrorism act, in case titled gulbaz the state (supra), it is held that accused has vol untarily confessed his guilt before prosecution witness who had fulfilled all the legal formalities in that behalf and accused, without any force or coercion, has admitted his accusation and said admission was admissible in evidence under the provisions of section -h of anti terrorism act, accused had failed to show any animosity toward the prosecution witness. prosecution case was fully supported from the recoveries affected from the spot of occurrence, positive report of bomb squads, the effective ly firing at the police party with intention to kill them which also page created terror and panic in the locality, had fully brought home the charge to accused. prosecution case was fully proved against accused. counsel for accused had failed to prove any ille gality or irregularity in the impugned conviction of the trial court which was the result of sound appraisal of evidence brought on record and to which no exception could be taken by the high court. (p. ). in view of the above discussion, after eva luation of the entire evidence of the prosecution on record and going through the aforementioned case laws in our considered view the prosecution has proved its case against all the respondent in all the above appeals beyond any shadow of doubts by produc ing ocular evidence, circumstantial evidence, confessional statement of accused respondents, recoveries on the pointation of the respondents, medical evidence and coupled with the absconsions of the accused respondents. we hold that the learned trial court has rightly convicted the accused iftikhar hussain, accused irfan ali accused baba jan, accused aleemullah khan, accused sher khan, accused rashid minhas, accused sarfraz, accused musa baig, accused shukurullah baig al ias mithoo and proclaimed offenders meher ali, deedar ali and driver nasir under section ppc read with section (d) of the anti terrorism act, and sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and to pay fine of (rupees one hundred thousand only) each. the above named accused are also convicted under section ppc and sentenced them to undergo () years imprisonment and the accused page to pay fine of rs. (rupees one hundred thousand only) each. the above named accused were also convicted and sentenced them under section ppc undergo years imprisonment. the above named accused are also convicted under section ppc and to undergo one year imprisonment. the accused iftikhar hussain, accused irfan a li, accused baba jan, accused aleemullah khan, accused sher khan accused rashid minhas, accused sarfraz, accused musa baig, accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo and proclaimed offenders maher ali, deedar ali and driver nasir under section ppc read with section (h) of the anti -terrorism act, and sentence them to undergo years imprisonment. the above named accused are also convicted under section ppc and sentenced them to undergo imprisonment for years. the above named accused wer also convicted under section -a ppc and sentenced them to pay daman of rs. (rupees one hundred thousand only). the above named accused are also convicted and sentenced to undergo years imprisonment as ta zir. the above named accused are also convicted under section (c) of the anti -terrorism act and sentenced them to pay daman of rs. (rupees one hundred thousand only) each and sentenced them to undergo years imprisonment as ta zir the amount of the daman shall be paid to the injured persons. the accused iftikhar hussain, accused irfan ali, accused baba jan, accused aleemullah khan, accused sher khan, accused rashid minhas accused sarfraz, accused musa baig, accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo and proclaimed offenders maher ali, deedar ali, and driver nasir under section page offence against property (enforcement of hudood) ordinance read with section ppc and section (d) of the anti terrorism act and sentence them to undergo rigorous impri sonment for ten () years and to pay fine of rs. (rupees one hundred thousand only) each. in default of payment of fine, the above named convicts -accused, shall undergo two years imprisonment. the convictions and sentences awarded to them by the learned trial court are upheld. the proclaimed offenders absconder accused maher ali, deedar ali and driver nasir are hereby convicted under section -l of the anti -terrorism act and sentenced them to undergo ten years imprisonment. the conv ict accused respondent have given a heavy loss to the government exchequer by putting on fire the police station aliabad and two government vehicles and have taken the arms and ammunitions from the mall khana of police station aliabad. the convict accused respondent are responsible for the damages given to government exchequer, hence, the cost of all the damages be recovered from the convict accused respondents, as an arrear of land revenue, as per assessment and be deposited into the government treasury whereas the learned trial court has failed to apply its judicial mind in acquitting the accused namely irfan karim, salman karim, accused ahmed khan, accused ghulam abass and accused ameer ali, who were also present on the place of occurrence, played equ al role in mischief, participated in putting on fire the police station and government properties, government vehicles equally participated in burning the record of the police station aliabad, case file and case properties in page mall khana and looted the po lice ammunitions kept in koth. in our considered view they were also equally responsible as of aforementioned convicted accused. the state filed appeals against them and the same were also allowed through our short .., hence, they are a lso been awarded the same convictions sentences as awarded to the aforementioned convicted accused namely accused iftikhar hussain, accused irfan ali, accused baba jan, accused aleemullah khan, accused sher khan accused rashid minhas, accused sarfraz, accu sed musa baig, accused shukurullah baig alias mithoo and proclaimed offenders maher ali, deedar ali and driver nasir. consequently, upon hearing i, rana muhammad shamim, cj, and j, have allowed all the ap peals filed by the state vide our short order ... consequent thereto, the impugned .. in criminal appeals no. and under fir no. the learned gilgit baltistan chief court wer set aside whereas the .. the learned trial court was maintained. in addition, since in criminal appeal no. filed by the state against the accused respondent namely irfan karim, salman karim, ahmed khan, ghulam ab bas and ameer ali was also allowed. they are also convicted as under: the above named respondent accused are convicted sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and the accused to pay fine of (rupees one hundred thousand only) each under section read with section (d) of the anti terrorism act, page the above named accused are also hereby convicted under section ppc and sentence them to undergo () years imprisonment and the accused to pay fine of rs. (rupees one hundred thousand only) each. they are also convicted under section ppc and sentence them to undergo years imprisonment. the above named accused respondent are also convicted under section ppc and sentenced them to undergo one ye ar imprisonment. the above named accused are also convicted under section ppc read with section (h) of the anti -terrorism act, and sentence them to undergo years imprisonment. they are also convicted under section ppc and senten ced them to undergo imprisonment for years. the above named accused respondent are also convicted under section -a ppc and sentenced them to pay daman of rs. (rupees one hundred thousand only) they are also convicted and sentenced to undergo years imprisonment as ta zir. the above named accused are also convicted under section (c) of the anti -terrorism act, and sentenced them to pay daman of rs. (rupees one hundred thousand only) each and sentenced them to unde rgo years imprisonment as ta zir the amount of the daman shall be paid to the injured persons. the accused respondent irfan karim, salman karim, ahmed khan, ghulam abbas and ameer ali are also convicted under section offence against property (e nforcement of hudood) ordinance read with section ppc and section (d) of the anti terrorism act and sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for ten () years and to pay fine of rs. page (rupees one hundred thousand only) ach. in default of payment of fine, the above named convicts -accused, shall undergo two years imprisonment. the convict accused respondent have given a heavy loss to the government exchequer by putting on fire the police station aliabad and two government vehicles and have taken the arms and ammunitions from the mall khana of police station aliabad. the convicts accused are responsible for the damages given to government exchequer, hence, the cost of all the damages be recovered from the convict accused espondents, as an arrear land revenue, as per assessment and be deposited into the government treasury. all the respondent accused except baba jan and iftikhar hussain who are already in jail custody are directed to surrender before the learned tri al court anti -terrorism court gilgit for serving out their sentences. in case they do not surrender the learned anti -terrorism court gilgit is directed to adopt all measures to arrest all the respondent in above appeals in order to serve out the sentences awarded to them. the copies of this judgment be sent to the learned trial court, the learned advocate general and the learned home secretary, government of gilgit -baltistan for implementation of the judgment of this court and for strictly compliance of th orders directives of this court thereto. during the course of arguments, the learned advocate general placed on record the office order no. cc. -e- dated .. issued by the learned registrar, gilgit -baltistan chief court whereby in pursu ance of the letter no. ps secy law () dated .. issued by the secretary, law and page prosecution gilgit -baltistan, the learned chief judge, gilgit baltistan chief court was pleased to appoint .. resulting in killing of two persons and injuring several others. whereafter he submitted the judicial inquiry report. it is sho cking that baltistan chief court who heard the criminal appeals arisen out of the same in cident as senior member of the bench which is against the code of conduct and becoming of a he should have refrained and separated himself to hear the said criminal appeals of the same incident as he cannot sit as a since he is at the verge of his retirement, this court has withheld to refer his case to the chairman gilgit -baltistan council prime minister of pakistan to file reference against him in the supreme judicial council gilgit -baltistan. the learned however, required to be careful in future. the dissenting note judgment separately written by our learned brother judge (, j) is as under: chief judge. judge. page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit. rana muhammad shamim,chief judge. ,judge. judge. cr. appeal no. cr. appeal no cr. appeal no cr. appeal no the state appellant iftikhar hussain thers irfan karim thers sarfaraz ahmad others baba jan respondent charge under section -a ppc section haraba of the offence against property (hudood) ordinance section -l and of the anti terrorism act vide fir no. of police station aliabad hunza. criminal leave to appeal under article of fgilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order etc. present:- the advocate general gilgit baltistan alongwith mr.ali nazar, advocate -on-record for the petitioner. mr.amjad hussain, advocate along with date of hearing:- --. page date of detail judgment:- -- judgment: shahbaz khan j: i have had the benefit of discussing the findings of my learned brothers, ho norable dr rana mohammad shamim chief i am unable to share the view expressed by them on some points and must respectfully dissent. though the facts and pro visions of the relevant law might be set out in the judgment prepared by honorable chief i propose to refer all the details and deliver a eparate judgment in the following terms: through the instant appeals, by leave of the court, the appellant has assailed the -- the learned chief court gilgit baltistan, in cr. appeals no. and whereby the said criminal appeal filed by the respondent accused have been accepted by acquitting them. the concise facts as narrated are as such that a criminal case vide its fir no. lodged by ip gulzar hussain on -- at police station hunza aliabad nominating the respondent baba jan, ahmad khan shishkat, sultan ishaq, imam dad, sahib page khan, mohammad shah, ali gohar, deedar hussain residents of sarat, rahim mohammad and iftikhar residents of shishkat, on the charge of leading a provoked mob consisting people as a result of an incident due to nonpayment of compensation to the affect ees of ata abad by ubl, attacked police station ali abad by beating guard abdul qayum present on the gate of police station and entered therein and beaten police officials present at the time of occurrence in the police station namely saleem fc, wazir am an hc, saifullah fc, ayub fc zafar iqbal fc and putting on fire the govt. vehicle no. glta present in the police station and put on fire all the police station record, all official documents and official material and cases material present in maal khana and broken the arm store koth by looting police arms and ammunition present therein consisting smg nos, semi rifles nos, ammunition rounds consisting g3 nos, mm nos, mp nos, bore pistol nos, and the magazines of arms along with the arms of dpl consisting smg nos, nos bore pistols and essential articles and magazines and arp material including smg nos, gas gun nos, gas shell packets, police station gas gun nos, shell nos, hand grenade boxes, and also burnt police uniforms, beds, belts and then burnt the vehicle of police station gulmit page and also burnt the sho house and then the mob went towards bazaar. the police after investigation submitted challan against the accused before the anti terrorist court gilgit. the prosecution tried to lead oral as well as documentary evidence in proof of the allegations to corroborate the prosecution version with the help of confessional statements of accused recorded before the superintendent of police under section -h atc act the police, in exercise of powers conferred under section cr pc released the following accused out of a total of who were directly nominated in fir by the complainant sho and as per statement of some eye wi tnesses as well as the investigation officer, having similar role with the accused, who have been committed to judicial lock up for facing trial: sultan ishaq shishkat imam dad sarat sahib khan sarat mohammad shah arat ali gohar sarat deedar hussain sarat rahim mohammad shiskat iftikhar shishkat the police submitted challan against the respondent baba jan, ahmad khan and the other accused respondent who were not named in fir. the learned gilgit framed the charge of page accused as per contents of fir no wherein the respondent accused did not plead guilty and claimed trial. consequently, the prosecution has produced as many as pw in proof of their case excluding those which have been named in fir as eye witnesses by the complainant. after recording of evidence made by the prosecution witnesses, the trial court recorded the statement of accused respondent under section wherein they vehemently denied the allegation stating that they are not involved in the instant case rather they have been involved by the po lice due to political pressure and just to harass and humiliate them in the eye of society as they are having good reputation and they have never committed any offence previously and they further stated that their involvement in the instant case by the olice is only the result of being them as eye witnesses of another incident which took place in an another place in ali abad wherein two affectees of ata abad were murdered and five injured by dsp babar khan and his gun man fc azam khan and the police want to restrain them of being eye witness of this incident. lastly the trial court has concluded the case in hand by giving their verdict vide .., five out of the seventeen accuse namely irfan karim, salman karim, ameer ali, ahmad khan ghulam abbass were acquitted by the trial court while other page accused namely iftikhar hussain, irfan ali, baba jan, aleemullah khan, sher khan, rashid minhas, sarfaraz khan, musa baig, shukurallah baig and proclaimed offenders meher ali, deedar ali an driver nasir were found guilty of the following offences and sentenced by the trial court as under: in the light of the above discussions, i hold that the prosecution has proved the guilt of accused iftikhar hussain, accused irfan ali, accused baba jan, accused allemulah khan, accused sher khan, accused rashid minhas, accused sarafarz, accused musa baig, accused shukurallah bag alias mitto, and proclaimed offenders meher ali, dedar ali and drive nasir for mischief by fire to cause damage to property, mischief causing damage, house trespass, assault on public servant, bodily hurt to the injured persons, rioting, haraba (daeti) and create a sense of fear and insecurity in the area in furtherance of their common object, hence i convict accused iftikhar hussain, accused irfan ali, accused baba jan, accused allemulah khan, accused sher khan, accused rashid minhas, accused sarfaraz, accused musa baig, accused shuk urallah baig alias mitto, and proclaimed offenders meher ali, deedar ali and driver nasir under section ppc read with section (d) of the anti terrorism act and sentence them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and the accused to pay fin of (rupees one hundred thousand only) each. the above named accused are also hereby convicted under section ppc and sentence them to undergo seven () years imprisonment and the accused to pay the fine of (rupees one hundred tho usand only) each. i convict the above named accused under section ppc and sentence them to undergo years imprisonment.. the above named accused are also convicted under section ppc and sentence them to undergo one year imprisonment. i con vict the accused iftikhar hussain, accused irfan ali, accused baba jan, accused allemulah khan, accused sher khan, accused rashid minhas, accused sarfaraz, accused musa baig, accused shukurallah baig alias mitto, and proclaimed offenders meher ali, deedar ali and driver nasir under section ppc read with section (h) anti terrorism act and sentence them to undergo years imprisonment. the above named accused are also convicted under section and sentence them to under go imprisonment for years. i convict the above named accused under section -a and sentence them to pay daman of rs (rupees one hundred thousand only) each and the above named accused are also convicted and page sentenced to undergo years imprisonment as tazir the above named accused are also convicted under section -f(iii) ppc read with section (c) of the anti terrorism act and sentenced them to pay daman of rs. (one hundred thousands only) each and sentenced them to undergo years imprisonment as tazir the amount of daman shall be paid to the injured persons. i convict the accused iftikhar hussain, accused irfan ali, accused baba jan, accused allemulah khan, accused sher khan, accused rashid minhas, accused sarfaraz, accused musa baig, accused shukurallah baig alias mitto, and proclaimed offenders meher ali, deedar ali and driver nasir under section offence against property (enforcement of hudood) ordinance read with section ppc and section (d) of the anti errorist act and sentence them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for ten years and to pay fine of rs (rupees one hundred thousand only) each. in default of payment of fine, the above named convicts -accused shall undergo two years imprisonment. proclaimed offenders absconder accused meher ali, deedar ali and driver nasir are hereby convicted under section -i of the anti terrorism act and sentenced them to undergp ten years imprisonment. before parting with the file, it is ertinent to mention here that the convicts -accused have given a heavy loss to govt. exchequer by putting on fire the police station aliabad. and two govt. vehicles and have taken the arms and ammunition from the mall khana of police station aliabad. the convicts accused are responsible for the damages given to govt. exchequer. hence, the cost of all the damages be recovered, as an arrear of land revenue, as per assessment and be deposited into the govt. treasury. the accused respondent filed an appeal before the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan against the said conviction. the learned chief court after hearing pro and contra in its judgments dismissed the appeal of the state filed against acquittal of accused irfan karim, salman karim, a meer ali, ahmad khan ghulam abbass and accepted appeals filed by baba jan, iftkhar hussain sarfaraz etc vide its -, holding that the judgment of the trial court is bad in the eyes of law and meritless. the page present petitioner appe llant being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned order the gilgit -baltistan chief chief court filed the petition in hand for leave to appeal before this apex court. this court admitted the case by granting leave to appeal. arguments ad vanced by the learned counsels of accused and learned advocate general gilgit baltistan heard in detail and record perused. the learned advocate general defended the judgment of the trial court up to the extent of accused baba jan, iftikhar hussain tc, sarfaraz khan etc but opposed in respect of accused irfan karim etc who have been acquitted by the learned trial court in the same judgment whereas the learned counsels of the respondent. the learned trial court based its findings on the following categories of evidences claimed to be produced by the prosecution which needs to be thoroughly examined in the light of law: (i) ocular evidence (ii) circumstantial evidence (iii) confessional statement of accused (iv) recoveries (v) medical evidence the first pinching point in the instant case is that out of twelve directly named and given same role in the fir, the police has discharged and released accused under section cr. pc which infect has demolished the pe rsecution story narrated in fir at the investigation stage. moreover, out of accused named in challan submitted u cr.pc, accused namely page irfan karim, salman karim, ameer ali, ghulam abbas and ahmad khan, having the same alleged role and partici pation in the occurrence as per statements of prosecution eye witnesses as well as investigation officer, have been acquitted by the learned trial court by rejecting the prosecution evidence and very surprisingly the other accused persons on the basis of exactly the same set of prosecution evidence, who could not be convicted and sentenced at all on the basis of such a rejected evidence and in absence of any other independent corroborative evidence but the learned trial court did it by co nvicting and sentencing them which is not only a gross violation of law but also against the natural justice. the db of honorable in its judgment under reference pcr.lj in a similar nature case has held that: the motive part of prosecution story, therefore, does not lend support to the prosecution case. apart from the above, four co -accused were acquitted by the learned trial a full bench of supreme court of pakistan headed by honorable in the case titled soba khan the state has held that: it is by now well settled principle of law relating to re appraisal of evidence that once co accused, similarly charged and page attributed same and similar role in a particular crime, is acquitted on the basis of same set of evidence where the witnesses have maintained no regard for truth while deposing on oath to tell the truth and nothing else the ordinarily they shall not be relied upon with regard to the other co accused unless their testimony evidence is strongly corrobo rated by independent cogent and convincing evidence. the supreme court of pakistan under reference scmr muhammad akram the state has held that: s. -a(i) ppc. case of vicarious liability. accused must be shown to share criminal act and also that criminal act was committed in concert and in pursuance of a prearranged plan, but in the present case no pre -concert and prearranged plan appeared to have been proved. trial court, in circumstances had rightly given benefit of doubt to acquitted accused. court had to sift the grain from the chaff and only one circumstances creating doubt in the mind of prudent man was sufficient to acquit accused by way of an abundant caution. if the trial court had acquitted some of accused persons by giving them benefit of doubt, that would not impair the veracity of the witnesses against the other accused whose, involvement in the case was established. accused were rightly acquitted. acquit tal upheld. the supreme court of pakistan in a case under reference scmr akhtar ali others the state (larger bench) has held that: s. ppc. eye-witnesses found to have falsely implicated five out of eight accused --- effect ---conviction of remaining three accused could not be based on same evidence without independent corroboration. appeal allowed. page the supreme court of pakistan in a case under reference pld sc shera masih another the state (fb) has held that: s. ppc. maxim: falsus in uno falsus in omnibus applicability. where the witnesses are found false against one accused, their evidence being of doubtful character would not be acceptable qua the remaining accused without independent orroboration and thus if the evidence of a witness is discarded to the extent of one accused, the same should not be automatically excluded from consideration qua other accused as the same can still be used against the remaining accused if it is supported by any other evidence of independent character. principle of falsus in uno falsus in omnibus therefore, cannot be accepted as a mandatory rule and given preference over the principle of sifting the grain from the chaff as by doing so the true spirit criminal administration of a division bench of lahore high court under reference nlr cr. lj muhammad anwar the state held as under: s. ppc. partial acceptance of ocular evidence against convicted accused and its disbelief qua acquitted accused would not be legally tenable. acquittal. the conviction and sentences the learned trial court is actually and factually based on section of the ppc and that the accused have been declared to be convicted as they were members of an alleged unlawful assembly but the trial court did not bother to look at the evidence on record as well as law for making an arguable foundation at least. before going to discuss on above points, i would like to discuss on the two fundamental issues in this case overlooked by the learned chief court and particularly the trial court which concluded its findings and conv icted the accused based page on the sole point mere presence of some of the accused on the scene of occurrence in absence of any attribution in the alleged overt act and by treating them same as members of an unlawful assembly under the principle of vicarious liability as well as constructive liabil ity without taking into consideration of non availability of evidence and its legal application and adaptation of due procedure during trial. thus we have to discuss the below mentioned points first: i. failure of learned trial court to frame charge under section ppc specifically. ii.failure of learned trial court in respect of appreciation and application of essential ingredients fundamental requirements of section ppc. iii. failure of trial court to specific framing of charges to justify its conviction and sentences awarded against the accused persons under the substantive offences. for a fair discussion on conviction under section we have to look at its essential ingredients of this provision, framing of charge by the learned trial courts usually and the charge frame by the learned trial ourt in the instant case particularly. a) section ppc states as under: every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object: if an offence is committed by any member of an unlawful assembly in prosecution of the common object of that assembly, or such as the members of that assembly knew to be likely to be committed in prosecution of that object, every page person, who at the time of the committing of that offence, is a member of the same assembly, is guilty of that offence. in order to apply section ppc, the accused must be: i. a member of an unlawful assembly ii. the overt act must have been committed in prosecution of common object or iii. the member of assembly must have known that such offence was likely to be committed in prosecution of the common object of the assembly. necessary ingredient of common object are, prior meeting of minds of accused to form a pre -arranged plan and some evidence to prove that accused were in concert and in pursuance of pre arranged plan then it could be said that the accused committed the criminal act. every member of an unlawful assembly must know that the offence likely to be committed is in further more of common object while convicting a person under this section necessary ingre dient for a constitution of the offence are prior meeting of minds of the accused to form a pre -arranged plan and evidence to prove that accused were in pre-concert and in pursuance of pre arranged plan, the offence committed. but it is an admitt ed fact that the prosecution totally failed to prove this main aspect of case as none of the prosecution witness uttered a single word to substantiate the contention of the prosecution as well as page conclusion of the learned trial court in respect of involv ement of accused under this specific allegation and applicability of section in this case. the whole case file does not possess any kind of evidence or even allegation that the accused persons pre planned to make an unlawful assembly with a common ob ject to commit the specific criminal acts charge sheeted. he record of the case does not disclose any kind of evidence that the incident was took place as a result of a pre planned act rather the record reveals that same was happened suddenly as a result of the tragic incident occurred in front of aliabad ubl bank a little bit time before wherein two civilian affectees of ata abad were killed and five injured as a result of firing of dsp babar his gunman fc azam. this fact is further substantiated and authenticated by the wordings of fir itself which explains that the incident took place as a result of provocation of the mob after the happening of the incident due to nonpayment of compensation by ubl. the accused were neither charge sheeted under in a specific way nor any evidence was produced before the trial court accordingly to prove and substantiate the ingredients of section and most interestingly none of the prosecution witnes ses attributed a single word about the alleged common object and also not attributed any overt act against any of the page accused in respect of the criminal acts charge sheeted. more interestingly those accused respondent were also convicted against whom there was absolutely nothing on the record. the surprising imposition of conviction and sentence of the accused respondent by the learned trial court under the umbrella and domain of section on the basis of just hypothesis, without farming of charge specifically, in absence of any cogent reasons and evidence on record in respect of section and and without affording any opportunity to the accused to defend themselves, is a gross violation of law. the prosecuti on also utterly failed to produce any kind of evidence in respect of these specific provisions during trial. therefore, the errors or omissions which are misleading and prejudicial to the accused or has occasioned failure of .. it is true that the learned rial court failed to frame substantive charges under -a ppc, section haraba of the offence against property (hudood) ordinance sections -l of anti page terrorism act as well against the accused persons. the char ges framed were for individual liability for these offences with the add of section pakistan penal code. the charges when framed wi th the help of section pakistan penal code, amount to telling the accused that they are constructively being held liable for offence committed by an other, who was a member of the unlawful assembly, in which they were also the members. it also amounts to telling them that they are not being accused of committing the offences with their own hands or of any participation in the commission of the said off ences. in such a situation, if the' charge under section pakistan penal code fails either by reason of the fact that unlawful assembly of five or mo re persons was not proved or some such reason, it is not open to the court to convict the accused persons of the substantive offence or offences. the omnibus statement about the culpability of the accused respondent in the testimony of the prosecution witnesses would in the circumstances of the case have to be considered only in the light of evidence of specific overt acts attributed to each and every accused which is missing not only in the entire prosecution case but also not available in the charge framed by the learned trial court as well unfortunately. therefore, in absence of evidence it is difficult to accept that the accused were memb ers of the unlawful assembly with the common object of committing the offence charge sheeted. in the page circumstances, it is held that section ppc is only an enabling provision and not a substantive offence and no sentence has been provided in this sectio so the conviction and sentence of the accused respondent awarded by trial court under this section is misconceived and it is highly unsafe to apply section and make everyone of them constructively liable. i, therefore have no hesitation in dismissing the prosecution case against the respondent on the charge under section thus the conviction sentencing of all the respondent accused und er section ppc by trial court has rightly been set aside by the learned chief court. having rejected the contention that the appellant were members of unlawful assembly, it would be equally unsafe apply section of ppc on the basis of omnibus statements made by the prosecution witnesses which is not corroborated. accordingly, the conviction of all the accused under section ppc also remains set aside. for a fair conclusion in respect of the implications of above provision and legality of trial procedure conducted by the trial court, it is extremel necessary to make a comparison between a charge framed by the courts in pakistan generally and the charge framed by the learned trial ourt in the instant case particularly as under: the framing of charge in a case u ppc used to be in practice as under: page charge: i------------- (name and office of the magistrate ------------------- (name of the accused) as flows: that you ------------------ on or about the day of ------ --------- at-------------- were member of an unlawful assembly, the common object of which was to ---------- specify the object ---------------------- and that while you were a member of the said unlawful assembly, another of member of the same committed ---------- (specify the act) ----------- and thereby committed an off ice punishable u -------------- of the ---------- which said offence was committed in prosecution of the common object of the said unlawful assembly (or which offence the members of the said unlawful assembly knew to be likely to be committed in furthera nce of the common object of the assembly), and that you thereby committed an offence punishable u of the pakistan penal code and within my cognizance. and i hereby direct that you be tried by the said court on the said charge whereas he learned trial court framed the charge in the instant case as under: charge: i raja sehbaz khan administrative gigit baltistan do hereby charge you accused iftikhar hussain muhammad ishaq, irfan karim karamat residents of aliabad, irfan ali arman shah murtaza abad, salman karim ibrahim, sher khan hamadullah baig aliabad hunza, baba jan abdullah baig nasir abad, allemullah khan taighoon shah hassan abad, ahmad khan ibadat, ghulam abbas muhammad residents of shishkat, amir ali s.o amir hayat, rashid minhas anees abdul mateen residents of ali abad hunza and sarfa rz ghulam musa altit hunza tehsil ali abad district hunza nagar that on .. at about hours along with your co accused proclaimed offenders meher ali farman ali, mithoo amanaullah residents of ali abad, driver nasir ghulam asul grilt hunza, driver musa baig abd-ur reman and deedar amir ali residents of shishkat hunza enraged and attacked on the police station and entered in the police station after assaulting and battling the fc abdul qayum, fc saleem, hc wazir aman, fc saifullah, fc ayub, fc zafar iqbal and set on fire the government datsun no. glt a and entered in the police station and put on fire the record of police station and case files and the case properties. the koat was also broken by you and weapons --, nos rounds of ., rounds of mm, rounds of mp -, rounds of bore pistols, with spare magzines and necessary parts of different weapons nos, nos, bore pistols with spare magazines page and necessary things of abp, nos nos gas gun, bag gas sh ells, one no gas gun of police stati on, nos gas shells and boxes hand grenades were taken by you and the uniform of police personnel along with their beds boxes and necessary things were also set on fire by you. a vehicle of police station gulmit was parked in a work shop opposite the police station was also set on fire and also put the fire on the house of sho house by you. by doing this act you accused caused the lo ss of millions to the government property. thereby, you have committed an offence punishable under section ,, ,, -a, ppc, haraba and section of that anti terrorism act which is within the co gnizance of this court an i hereby direct you to be tried by me on the said charges it is clear from above charge sheet that the trial court totally failed to frame the charge as per ingredients of the section ppc specifically thus defeated the rights available to the respondent accused under criminal jurisprudence. the respondent accused are not being asked to defend themselves on the fundamental charge of criminal acts committed as a result of being a member of an unlawful assemb ly in prosecution of the common object of all the criminal acts mentioned above rather the accused have been charged to defend them as an individual liability against some criminal acts as happened in ordinary cases just aiding of section ppc. moreover, none of the prosecution witness examined who could support the contention of the prosecution to substantiate or prove the essential ingredients of this particular provision of section page thus the conviction based judgment under cover and domain of sec tion by imposing the constructive liability in a case of unproved charges has caused prejudice and injustice to the accused which is not warranted under the law thus not maintainable. the following citations will further substantiate the contention whatever stated above; pcr.l. arranged plan and some evidence to prove that accused were in -concert and in pursuance of pre arranged plan then it could be said that the accused committed the cri minal act (plj sh.c (aj k) every member of unlawful assembly must know that the offence likely to be committed is in furtherance of common object while convicting a person under this section necessary ingredient for constitution of the ffence are prior meetings of minds of the accused to form a pre -arranged plan and evidence to prove that accused were in pre concert and in pursuance of a pre -arranged plan, the offence committed. pld supreme court (ind.) if members of the fami ly of the appellant and other residents of the village assemble, all such persons could not be condemned ipso facto as being members of that unlawful assembly. it is necessary, therefore, for the prosecution to lead evidence pointing to the conclusion that all the appellant had done or been committing some overt act in prosecution of the common object of the unlawful assembly. the omnibus kind of evidence that all the appellant and many more were the miscreants and were armed with deadly weapons like guns, spears, pharsas axes, lathis etc has to be very closely scrutinized in order to eliminate all air andh pra chances of false or mistaken implication. the case of each individual accused has to be examined to satisfy that mere spectators who had not joined the assembly and were unaware of its motive had not been branded as members of the unlawful assembly which committed the crime. p. a an accused is charged only with a substantive office cannot be convicted u read with substant ive offence. page air sc where an accused is charged only with an offence under this section read with the section dealing with a substantive offence, conviction in such cases for substantive offence would be bad if the accuse has suffered prejudice. a charge as a member of an unlawf ul assembly for an offence committed by a member thereof in furtherance of common object is a substantially different one from a charge against a person for an offence committed by him as a member of such assembly. a charge u puts the person on notice only of the fact that the wats committed by a member of the unlawful assembly in prosecution of the common object or such as was known to be likely committed. section creates a distinct head of criminal liability commonly known as constructive lia bility which is not covered by section and (cr pc. (sc) ind air sc in sanichar sahni v. state of bihar therefore,... unless the convict is able to establish that defect in framing the charges has caused real prejudice to him an that he was not informed as to what was the real case against him and that he could not defend himself properly, no interference is required on mere technicalities. conviction order in fact is to be tested on the touchstone of prejudice theory. air sc in darbara singh v. state of punjab. in determining whether any error, omission or irregularity in framing the relevant charges, has led to a failure of justice, the court must have regard to whether an objection could have been raised at an earlier stage during the proceedings or not. while judging the question of prejudice or guilt, the court must bear in mind that every accused has a right to a fair trial, where he is aware of what he is being tried for and where the facts sought to be established against him, are explained to him fairly and clearly, and further, where he is given a full and fair chance to defend himself against the said charge(s). ocular evidence i) as per prosecution story itself, there is no dispute that the incident took place in a broad day light at a place on around kkh which is a thickly page populated and market place of ali abad town where hundreds of people used to be present all the time normally. but very surprise to note that the prosecution did not pro duce even a single independent person as witness hailing from the locality or even a non partisan, non -interested private person of any other place present there at the time of occurrence being a passerby. the fir itself speaks about presence of at least persons present at the place of occurrence which is kkh and market place and interestingly the pws stated before the trial court that the rioters and mob of unlawful assembly were and at the most in numbers who entered the police statio and committed criminal acts therein. this proves beyond any doubt that more than persons were present at the place of occurrence as spectators and not as rioters. but the prosecution miserably failed to produce none of them as eye witness being natur al witnesses. all the witnesses produced by the prosecution were interested and partisan being police officials their evidence is not trust worthy and free from doubts thus not reliable. ii) the learned trial court, while convicting the accused, has relied upon page those so called police officials as eyewitnesses of occurrence which are neither named in fir nor they could be treated as eye witnesses in the eye of law. the fir lodger pw16 is sho and complainant in this case who does not disclose the names of these so called eye witness at all neither in fir nor in his statement before the trial court wherein he once again emphasized correctness of the contents of fir. the complainant, being sho of same police station categorically named the below mentioned eye witness in the fir who were present in the police station when the provoked mob attacked. gate guard abdul qayum fc, saleem fc, wazir aman hc, saifullah fc, ayub fc zafar iqbal fc but it is very very surprising to note that the police did not record statement u cr.pc of above six officials at all and did not make them as eye witnesses of this occurrence and not named in witnesses column of chalan a well. moreover, the prosecution neither mentioned any reason for not producing them as eye witnesses nor claimed page wining over of them or any other reason or explanation for not examining them as eye witnesses in the court making the whole prosecution stor a concocted and false. the investigation officer remained mum in respect of fir named eye witnesses either in his challan report or in his statement before the trial court and also failed to explain anything in the challan report or even in his statement before the trial court in respect of missing of fir named eye witnesses. the investigation officer did not utter a single word of reason or explanation for not adducing them as eye witnesses before th court. as per timely lodged fir and statement of complainant recoded before the court makes it crystal clear that apart from the private people the above fir named officials were the natural and real eye witnesses of the occurrence who have been del iberately willfully pushed back from the occurrence scene and this act has not only created serious doubts about qua the guilt of accused but also demolished the prosecution case thus this sole point is enough to declare the prosecution case as false concocted. iii. as a result of attack on police station by mob, it is natural that several police officials should be injured. although no page medico legal certificate consisting about nature of injuries has been placed before the trial court in respect of any injured police official including these natural witnesses. however one pw dr. wali mohammad medical officer askurdas dispensary has been produced before the court and he endorses examination and treatment of injured gurad abdul qayum fc, saifullah, and zafar iqbal fc but the prosecution did not submit any medico legal certificate in this regard. pw dr. khuwaja khan of civil hospital ali abad as well examine fir named eye witness wazir aman hc and endorsed his treatment but no medico legal certificate is available on the record in this regard as well. all the above four fir named police officials were no doubt stationed and performing their duties in the po lice station when the mob attacked. thus their presence in police station as eye witness is beyond any doubt but non examination of these four injured and fir named natural eye witness has created serious doubts about the prosecution case and naturally and legally presumption has gone against the prosecution and they might not have corroborated the prosecution case as a result if produced and examined before the court. page in a similar nature case, the learned the finding in this regard is as under: non -examination of prosecution witnesses named in fir as eye witnesses whose evidence was material and admissible in order to arrive at just and correct conclusion, was not explained by the prosecution --- prosecution witnesses examined at the tria could not be termed as eye -witnesses of the occurrence and their testimony was neither unimpeachable nor reliable --- accused were not proved to have a strong motive to commit the murder of the deceased --- circumstance that the accused had already been sh own to the witnesses well in advance of the identification parade was fatal to the prosecution case which was inherently weak and full of material inconsistent and infirmities ---accused were acquitted in circumstance. --- s. --- appreciation of evi dence below mentioned citations will make this point further clear: (db) pld lah. ghulam rasul. prosecution must call witnesses named in f.i.r. whether they support the prosecution or not. as a general rule, the prosecutor is bound to call all eye witnesses who are mentioned in the first information report unless he has reasons to believe that the witness if called would not speak the truth, or is unnecessary or is an accomplice himself. the mere statement of the public prosecution not support by any material upon the record that the witnesses were won over the accused, would not absolve the prosecution to produce material witnesses mentioned in the first information repo rt. if, however, the public prosecutor refuses to examine such witnesses, then a duty is cast upon the court to all those witnesses as court witnesses and afford opportunity to both the accused and the prosecution to cross -examine them. failure to examine such witnesses or witnesses who were able to give important information in the case, or had some connection with the transaction in question might very well lead to miscarriage of p. a scmr page case title: shah nawaz lal khan citation: (a) penal code (xlv of s. read with vidence act to s. illus. (g) non examination of eye witnesses mentioned in fir circumstances of case demanding the witnesses should have been examined inference adverse to prosecution in such case could and should be drawn p. a calcutta high court afjal hossain and ors. state of west bengal and anr. on february, equivalent citations: () chn against the said order of acquittal the opposite party no. the de facto -complainant of the case moved a criminal revision before the sessions court, uttar dinajpur. the learned additional district and sessions judge, fast track, 2nd court, raigunge, uttar dinajpur by his judgment and january set aside the said order of acquittal and remanded back the said case to the trial court for fresh trial directing that during such fresh trial the de facto -complainant be permitted to examine all the fir name un examined witnesses. eighthlv. as witnesses during trial some persons, about whom there was no reference in the fir and left behind all the persons who have been referred as witness in the fir except p.w. ninthly, the learned magis trate observed, according to the principle of law as laid down in the decisions, viz. criminal law journal (sc) and criminal law journal (sc) the failure of i.o. cannot render the prosecution case doubtful nor there is any necessity to examine all the eyewitnesses, but in the instant case the matter is otherwise, here the prosecution has relied on p.w. and p.w. without examining the fir name eye-witnesses. initially not a single fir name eye-witness was examined by the prosecution, subsequently the prosecution applying the provisions of section of the code of criminal procedure examined only the p.w., who is the father of p.w., but curiously enough the prosecution has not tak en any pain to examine other fir name eye -witnesses following the said provisions. even no explanation for non examin ation of those vital fir name eye witnesses has been offered. this aspect of the case speaks a volume against the prosecution as because examin ation of those fir name eye -witnesses might have help the defence. page c) the revision has been preferred by the de acfo complainant as no appeal has been preferred by the state, where prosecution has not examined the fir name eye -witnesses and doctor. d) the revisional court is to see whether there is miscarriage of e) there is evidence of relatives of both accused and the de facto -complainant. apart from that in the instant case in hand during the trial the prosecution taking recourse to section of the code of criminal procedure examined p.w. anauddin ahamed, the father of the victim wife, but reason best known to the prosecution attempt has been made to examine the other fir name witnesses or the doctor there under. the doctors were not even examined under section of the code during the investigation. in my view, in such ci rcumstances a presumption under section (g) of the evidence act is very much available in favor of the defense and sending the matter back for retrial with the opportunity to the prosecution to examine witnesses referred in charge sheet or not would certainly provide an opportunity to the prosecution to fill up its lacuna. having regard to the materials on record, i am of the opinion that the revisional court has exceeded its jurisdiction while inter fering with the order of acquittal of the petitioner and thus same cannot be sustained. hence, the impugned order whereby order of acquittal of the petitioner has been reversed by the revisional court is set aside and order of acquittal passed in favour of the petitioner by the trial court stands restored p.cr.lj shamman etc. g) evidence act. non -production of eye -witnesses for examination. presumption that such witnesses if examined would not support the prosecution case, held correct. section illus. p.cr.lj ilr lah. (pc), (db) plj. cr.c. (bj) material witness if not produced without sufficient reason court may presume that had the prosecution. db) p.cr.lj najeebullah etc. witness from neighbourhood not produced. persons from neighboring houses soon attracted to the scene of occurrence. none was examined as prosecution witness or named in f.i.r. prosecution version held doubtful. page (sc) scmr independent witnesses present but not produced. ocular evidence contrary to medical evidence. accused acquitted. (db) p.cr.lj abdul aziz etc. disinterested witness not produced when occurrence took place in the most populous part of the town in daylight. prosecution case resting only on the evidence of three interested -cum -hostile witnesses and their testimony irreconcilable with medical evidence. such witnesses disbelieved. (db) p.cr.lj mangio. non -partisan and natural witnesses not examined by the prosecution. held, adverse inference to be drawn against the prosecution. .. (db) p.cr.lj mushtaq ahmed etc. partisan witnesses only, produced at the trial although the occurrence took place in a congested bazar. recoveries of crime weapons doubtful. accused acquitted. scmr karam dad v. abdullah. (db) p.cr.lj siraj etc. no independent witnesses produced. incident taking place in busy cattle fair in presence of hundreds of people, yet no independent witness produced. circumstances very suspicious. high court rightly acquitted the accused. (db) pld kar. mamoon. eye witness not mentioned in the f.i.r. the evidence of the eye witnesses not mentioned in f.i.r. ruled out of consideration. iii. more interestingly, instead of making above mentioned fir named witnesses as eye witnesses, the prosecution managed to get recorded statement of the following six page other police officials u cr. pc as eye witnesses after a delay of days days of occurrence despite the fact that as per their own statement before the court, they are the officials stationed and posted at police station ali abad and were present at police station during occurrence of the incident as well but very surprisingly their statements u cr.pc has been recorded after a delay to days and no explanation has been given for this extra ordinary delay which makes their whole evidence absolutely doubtful and unreliable: i. pw- ip retired gulzar hussain fir lodger complainant: very interestingly his statement u has not been recorded at all. ii. pw- mohammad ismail: statement u crpc recorded on :after a delay of days. iii. pw hc ali ahmad jan: statement u crpc recorded on after a delay of 09days. iv. pw hc mohammad yasin: statement u cr.pc recorded on after a delay of days v. pw hc mohammad akram baig: statement u cr.pc recorded on after a delay of 47days vi. pw sgc naeemullah baig: statement u crpc recorded on after a delay of days. it is an admitted fact that the prosecution did not mention any kind of explanation or reason in respect of extra ordinary delay of page to days in respect of recording statements of above eye witnesses under section cr.pc. the following citations will make it clear that, the testimony of the above named eye witnesses in such a circumst ance will be highly doubtful and unreliable: scmr muhammad khan v. maula bakhsh. statement u s. recorded with delay without any plausible explanation casts serious suspicion on the credibility of witnesses, such evidence not relied upon. (db) pld kar. qabil shah. hours' delay. witness examined by the police hours after the occurrence. veracity of such eye -witness account doubted. db) plj cr.c. (kar.) jalal. days' delay in examination of eye -witness after the occurrence is enough to look askance at his evidence. such a person is not a witness of truth. (fsc) psc muzaffar khan. statement to police after days by the persons who were not mentioned a the witnesses by the prosecutrix. held, such persons could not be treated as eye -witnesses. days' delay. statement of an eye -witness recorded by police days after the incident ruled out of consideration by the court. (db) pld kar. badhu. days' delay in recording statement by the police when the pw was running a shop near the police station and also going with the first informant to the police station. statement not relied upon. (sc) scmr sahib gul v. ziarat gul. police recorded the statement of a prosecution witness days after the occurrence in a mrder case. no explanation for this inordinate delay given. held, a case of further inquiry. bail allowed. plj cr.c (kar.) abdul ghani. statement u s. cr.p.c. recorded after delay without explanation for such delay is to be ruled out of consideration. scmr (s.app.c.) syed saeed mohammad shah. page gross and unexplained delay days) in recording statements of p.ws. under section cr.p.c. cular evidence not fit to be accepted without strong corroboration. (db) p.cr.lj wahid bakhsh. pld pesh. asfandyar eye-witness appearing before police after days, of occurrence no explanation for keeping silent for such a long period. held, no reliance can be placed on such eye witnesses. (db) plj cr.c. (lah.) zahere -ud-din. days after the occurrence, a witness was examined by the police and no explanation offered for the delay. held: not safe to rely on such evidence. (db) cr.lj allah din etc. statements of witnesses recorded or days after occurrence, held reliability of such witnesses is always questionable. scmr mohammad iqbal. month's delay. witnesses examined by the police after lapse of one and a half months. testimony of such witnesses is to be disregarded. (db) cr.lj muhammad rafiq etc. plj lah. months after the occurrence a witness when examined by the police, such witness was not believed without explanation for delay. pld lah. amir. iv. as per statement of fir lodger complainant pw sho gulzar hussain, the mob entered into the police station by beating guard abdul qayum fc standing at the gate of the police station whereas all the above named so called eye witnesses contradicted the same by stating that the mob entered into police stat ion through windows of kitchen after breaking the same. interestingly the site plan expw a prepared and signed in presence of magistrate salman ali pw categorically states that the accused shukuralh baig along with mob had pelted page stones on the windo ws and roshandan of kitchen from garden of raja sakhi ahmad jan a place situated outside the police station towards east. this document does not show any indication that the window of kitchen was broken by mob and entered the police station through this wa y. this document further falsify the statement of pw mohammad ismail hc in respect of presence of shukur ullah baig in side the police station during the occurrence. moreover, the pw the fir lodger states to be inside the police station at the tim of occurrence but the pw mohammad ismail hc states that during the incident the pw was somewhere else outside the police station. the pw hc mohammad ismail falsify his own statement by saying that most of the rioters were muffled among them he ecognized some accused which is apparently seems to be untrue and self contradictory. v. that just to strengthen their statements, the following prosecution eye witnesses pretended themselves to be injured as a result of occurrence and stated to be examined and treated by the medical officers but no medico legal certificate in this regard has been produced by the prosecution before the trial court. moreover very surprisingly all the page three medical officers examined by the trial court, totally falsified the statements of the so called injured witnesses by not mentioning even their names in the statement before the trial court: pw- mohammad ismail claims that as a result of incident he became injured and he managed to reach asku rdas dis pensary and got treatment. but medical officer of this dispensary, dr. wali mohammad pw totally negates this story in his statement before the trial court and does not mention the name of this so called eye witness in his statement among tho se injured officials who were examined and treated by him on the day of occurrence. pw- mohammad akram baig claims that after the occurrence he went to doctor for treatment but none of the three medical officers examined before the trial court did mention his name in their statements. pw- sgc naeem ullah baig claims that on the day of occurrence he went to the house of iqbal karim from where at about p.m at night went to agha khan hospital at karim abad and got discharged after first page aid and thereafter they referred him to dhq hospital gilgit. interestingly no doctor from agha khan hospital came forward to substantiate his statement. however pw shahid ullah baig medical officer ali abad hospital contradicted his story by stating that the pw naeem ulah came to him on for medical checkup and examination and it was he who referred him to gilgit hospital. pw- hc ali ahmad jan stated in his statement that after the incident he went to doctor along with the injury sheet. but none of the three medical officers examined before the court mentioned even his name in their statements. vi. the learned trial court misconceived about the statements of accused respondent recorded u cr.pc before the trial court that they have admitted to be present at the place of occurrence hence liable to be convicted and sentenced. the statements of accused recorded under the above referred section careful perusal of record of case files page makes it clear that the acc used actually stated about their presence in respect of another incident reported under:- fir no. which took place at a different location of ali abad town at a different time on the same day wherein two affectees of ata abad were kille and five injured as a result of firing by dsp babar his gunman fc azam. the accused further stated that since they were eye witnesses of that incident as such the police has involved them in the present case to harass and pressur ize to stop them from giving evidence to save their police officials from the murder case. the recoveries. as per record of the case, nothing ecovered from accused baba jan, irfan ali, aleemullah khan, ahmad khan, ghulam abbass, ameer ali, rashid minhas mitt u, musa baig and shukurallah baig. however the prosecution has shown recoveries against accused iftikhar hussain, salman karim, irfan karim, sher khan sarfaraz khan but the same are highly doubtful, fake and unreliable because of the following reasons: i. as per prosecution story, the mob broke the koat and looted the arms and ammunition stored therein as per details mentioned in fir page but very surprisingly the prosecution could not produce any police record, document or witness to substantiate this fact that such kind and quantity of arms and ammunition were actually existed in the police station arms store koat before the incident and the same is missing as a result of alleged incident. ii. it is an admitted fact that the police could not show any recovery from the above named accused at all except the alleged recovery from the following five accused persons: salman karim: a gun on irfan karim: a semi automatic on iftikhar hussain: nos of mm live cartridges on sher khan: one bore shot gun on sarfaraz khan: nos live cartridges of 0n it is very interesting to note here that the learned trial court acquitted accused salman karim irfan karim having alleged recovery of fire arms of g- gun and a semi automatic rifle but convicted accused iftikhar hussain, sarfaraz khan sher khan having alleged recovery of commonly available live rounds and a bore shot gun. page iii. the prosecution, instead of making independent notables and respectable. of the locality, has made only police officials as marginal witnesses of all the rec overies despite availability of non partisan private public witnesses at spot being a place of thickly populated locality. the testimony of police officials thus has lost credence in such a situation and the recoveries would become totally unreliable when no public witness was associated with the recovery proceedings. moreover the recovered arms and live cartridges were not sent to forensic laboratory which resulted loss of evidentiary or corroborative value of the same as well. iv. alleged recovery of weapons and live cartridges from the above named accused have been made after a delay of and days of occurrence respectively. it is hard to believe that the accused would keep on hiding the police weapons in their owned places just for waiting for its recovery by the police in a situation when the police was searching their looted weapons like a hungry hunter and recovering the same from public places of ali abad own in a thrown away position. v. as per prosecution story and recovery memo ex pw a, two empty magazines of kalashnikov and alive rounds of mm were recovered from a plot having boundary wall owned by the accused iftikhar hussain at a place page known as gira located at a distance of meters from police station. but pw farman ali magistrate, specially brought as a witness to these recoveries, totally falsified the statements of prosecution recovery witnesses by stating that the number of alive rounds of mm rec overed from accused iftikhar hussain were and the same were recovered from a plo having no boundary wall at a different place know as gurman aliabad which is located at a distance of kilo meter from aliabad police station. vi. a recovery of ore sh ot gun has been shown against the accused sher khan by the prosecution. but it is very interesting to note here that the weapon of bore shot gun claimed to be recovered from the accused does not include in the detailed list of fir looted by mob from police station during the incident. in a situation explained above, the recoveries shown against the above named accused seems to be concocted, fake and not genuine and lacks credibility and reliability thus could not become a ground for a conviction against the accused at all. the following case laws further substantiate whatever discussed above. nlr criminal case title: muhammad akram the state. citation: sec objection of associating public witnesses with recovery is to obviate possibility of false implication of accused persons. recoveries would become unreliable when no public witness was associated while making inquiry though public witnesses were available. p. plj cr.c. (karachi) page case title: dur muhammad the state. citation ---s. -d double barrel gun recovery of conviction for challenge to contention that lower courts did not give any importance to fact that in spite of availability of private persons, none was asked to act as mashir admission of prosecution witnesses, is also on record that there were shops and hotels ground place of recovery of gun and so many private persons were available but only police party acted as mashir in view of the above testimony of police officers has lost credence held prosecution has failed to establish charge against petitioner, beyond reasonable doubt conviction set aside p.. a nlr criminal case title: bashir the state recovery --- recovery of carbine which is not sent to forensic laboratory carries evidentiary or corroborative value it cannot be used to rehabilitate ocular evidence which is wholly unreliable. pcr. lj case title: muhammad azeem the state. citation: --s. conviction propriety of recovery benefit of doubt only two police officers appearing as witnesses to recovery and not a single independent public witness cited possibility that accused was falsely implicated in case, not ruled out accused given benefit of doubt and acquitted in circumstances, witnesses benef it of doubt p. a scmr ahmed hayat. recovery of blood -stained knife days after the arrest of the accused from cowdung heap. held, unlikely that blood -stain will remain intact so as the origin may be detected. plj s.c. riaz masih scmr recovery of blood -stained knife from appellant by itself is not sufficient for conviction on murder charge. recovery also held doubtful because attesting witnesses are police officials only. the recovery was made on last day physical remand of the accused. recovery disbelieved. plj 1995s.c. muhammad arshad. blood -stained hatchet recovered after days of the occurrence from the house of the accused. it is hard to believe that the accused would keep blood stained weapon in his house for so long. recovery not relied upon. (db) pld lah. muhammad pld cr.c. (lah.) page more than days elapsing between occurrence and actual recoveries. such inordinate delay creates doubts as to whether the recoveries were genuine or fake. held, recoveries not reliable. (db) nlr cr. bashir recovery of fire -arms (carbine) not sent to forensic laboratory has no corroborative value. .legal sanctity of confessional statement of accused under section -h of anti terrorism act i. the matter pertains to the interpretation of legal position on confessional statement of an accused before the police officer in terms of section -h of anti terrorism court the statement of an accused relatin to inculpatory statement before the police officer is not admissible and on the touch stone of the same principle a confessional statement, in terms of section -h of anti terrorism act may have no evidentiary value and is not as such admissible. this apex court in its judgment under reference gblr has held that: the anti terrorism act is a federal statute and is made applicable to gillgit baltistan also thus the interpretation of section -h ibid to the contrary may not be -a of the constitution which assures fair trial. this is settled principle of law that any law or provision of law, in conflict to the constitution is not valid. page ii. the learned trial court while convicting and sentencing the accused respondent has based upon the confessiona statements of respondent accused made before the police officials under section -h of anti terrorism act terming the testimony of the same as admissible under the law and by doing so th learned trial court mainly relied upon a decision of learned chief court gilgit baltistan under reference pcr.lj but it is interesting to note here that this judgments has become overruled as a result of judgment of this apex court under refe rence gblr wherein it has been held as under: the basic principle of criminal administration of there is no cavil to the proposition of law that conviction can alone sustain on the basis of even a retracted confession made by an accused person before a judicial officer if it is found truthful and confidenc inspiring and since no sanctity is attached with the confession of guilt before a police officer therefore such confession cannot be considered at par to the judicial confession and is not admissible in evidence to be made basis of conviction. the ques tion of admissibility of confession of confession before a police officer under section -h of anti terrorism court was considered by the supreme court of pakistan in mahram ali,s case (pld sc supra wherein it has held that the confessiona statement before a police officer was not admissible and observation was made for suitable amendment of section -h of anti terrorism act this is settled law that a onfession made before a judicial officer subject to the credibility of page statement, was admissible in evidence, whereas a confession made before a police officer or any other person in authority or a private person, could have no legal sanctity and could hardly be treated as extra judicial confession in law. confession of the accused under custody before a police officer, could not be free from undue influence and coercion as police custody itself was considered coercion and a statement during custody could not be voluntary. this is settled principle of constitutional law that a person an accused of an offence, can not be compelled to be witness against himself and in that context the judicial confession made by accused voluntarily before the magistrate which was recorded after fulfillment of legal requirements, could be admissible as evidence against him but a conviction made before a police officer, could not be equated with the confession before magistrate because no presumption of its being voluntary, could be attached with such a statement.. there is no compulsion for the court to accept the confessional statement of accused recorded by judicial officer or a police officer, but confessional statement made before a judicial officer had evidentiary value to be accepted as eviden ce, whereas a confession made before a police officer as not considered legal evidence. the official auth ority of a police officer, may create an impression of compelling accused to make confessio in a similar nature case under reference mld it has been held that: recovery of hand grenades from possession of accused was not witnessed by any independent. police officials, were no doubt as good witnesses as any other from the public, but when in a case the very occurrence on the alleged date and spot was highly dou btful, recovery of incriminating material in the absence of independent witnesses, had to be looked askance at. alleged confessional statement of accused page thought had been recorded after fulfilling all legal formalities, but same having been recorded by a police officer, would cast a serious doubt on its voluntariness despite its admissibility under section of anti terrorism act question was not merely of admissibility or otherwise of a confessional statement, but the question was its voluntarin ess or otherwise before a person who could never be thought to be independent, impartial, non partisan and separated from those who were entrusted with the job of investigation. confessional statement of accused was of no help to prosecution as same was no voluntary. prosecution having failed to prove its case beyond any shadow of doubt, their conviction and sentence recorded by trial court were set aside and they were set aside free in the light of the above discussion, there can be no departure to the principle that a confession before a police officer is not admissible in evidence under the provision of qanun e- shahadat and cannot be used against the accused at the trial at par to the judicial confession for the purpose of conviction. the con fession before a police officer may carry the presumption of coercion and undue influence unless it is established on record that an accused voluntarily made a statement before a police officer quite free from any influence or coercion. the voluntary confe ssion before a police officer who is not associated with the investigation of case may have the status of an extra judicial confession which is a very weak type of evidence and cannot be relied page upon without independent corroborative evidence of sound and u impeachable character. thus i fully agree with the findings of honorable supreme court of pakistan given in mehram ali federation of pakistan sc and of this apex court verdict given in ateeq hussain etc the state case gblr ), wherein this issue has exhaustively been dealt with to declare the provision of section -h of anti terrorism act violative and ultra vires to the article of the gb (empowerment self governance) order read with article -a, and of the constitution of pakistan. the anti terrorism act is a federal law which has been made applicable to gilgit baltistan and a provision of federal law declared by the supreme court of pakistan ultra vires to the constitution of pakistan thus can no more treated as part of statute and would have no legal effect. the net shell of the above discussion is that: i. the prosecution demolished its case by not making those police officials as eye witnesses who were specifically named by complainant sho ali abad in his fir as witnesses being present at the police page station when the provoked mob attacked ali abad police station. ii. in presence of fir named eye witnesses, the manure and arrangement of other po lice officials as eye witnesses and recording their statements under section cr.p.c after an extra ordinary delay of to days without mentioning any explanation by the police and their contradictory and false statements before he trial court as explained supra, has made the prosecution case as totally unreliable highly doubtful false and fabricated, iii. the extra ordinary delay in making recoveries from out of accused and by making interested and partisan police officials as marginal witnesses to these recoveries and their contradictory statements as well made the recoveries as highly doubtful, false, concocted and unreliable, iv. no medico legal certificate existed on case file except police injury sheets mentioning no description nature of injuries of fir named witnesses along with examination of three medical officers as witnesses who stated to make ch eck up and treatment of those police officials on the day of occurrence who were named in fir as page witnesses but surprisingly the prosecution did not make none of them as eye witnesses of the occurrence demolishing its case as a result. v. the confession al statement of accused respondent before the police officer under section -h anti terrorism act has no legal effect being violative and ultra vires to article of gb (empowerment self governance) order and article -a, of the constitution of pakistan as declared by this apex court as well as supreme court of pakistan supra in the light of the above discussions, the appeals no. filed by the state stands fail and according ly dismissed. there shall be no order as to costs. consequently the the learned gilgit baltistan chief court in criminal appeals no. and under fir no. are upheld and the respondent stand acquitted. appeals dismissed. judge. majority decision of the court. page all the above appeals nos. i.e. cr. appeal no. cr. appeal no. cr. appeal no. and cr. appeal no. filed by the state are allowed. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?