page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan, gilgit. chief judge. judge. cr. pla. no. the state through deputy advocate general gb petitioner. ghafoor others respondents. present:- the advocate general alongwith on-record for the petitioners. date of hearing: ... order. this criminal leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned .. in criminal misc. no. the learned chief court whereby the appeal of the petitioner was dismissed by directing the sho police station jal to follow the directions of the learned .., hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that an fir no. was registered in police station kaghan on .. under section ppc read with anti-terrorism act, against the respondent on account of an act of dacoity terrorism and attempt to murder on kaghan police mobile team etc. during the said act of terrorism one police head constable page namely muhammad sajid of police station kaghan received bullet injuries. the kaghan police in defence and safety opened fire resultantly two alleged terrorists namely ziaullah son of abdul wadood resident of thak chilas and akhter muneer son of shakeer muhammad resident of thak chilas were killed and one terrorist was injured who succeeded to escape from the scene. later on the said escaped person was arrested at chilas while coming for treatment in camouflage position by overlapping in burqa. per learned advocate general the diamer police has nothing to do with this act as the same has been committed in the territorial jurisdiction of kaghan police station. the respondent also filed an application under section a cr. pc for registration of criminal case against the petitioner in the court of learned additional district sessions directing the petitioner to lodge fir against the petitioner no. in accordance with law vide impugned ... the said judgment was upheld by the learned chief court vide impugned .. passed in criminal misc. no. per learned advocate general the impugned judgments the learned courts below are without jurisdiction. he prays that the same may very graciously be set aside in the interest of justice. we have heard the learned advocate general at length, who could not point out any illegality infirmity in the impugned .. passed in criminal misc. no. page by the learned chief court as well as the .. in criminal misc. no. the learned additional sessions the impugned judgment the learned chief court is well reasoned and well founded and interference into it is not warranted. in view of the above discussions, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal. the leave is refused accordingly. consequent thereto the impugned .. passed in criminal misc. no. by the learned chief court is affirmed. the leave is refused. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?