page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal. no. in cr. pla no. the state petitioner. sher gayas respondent. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith deputy advocate general gilgit -baltistan and -on-record for the petitioner. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the criminal appeal no. filed by the respondent was allowed by setting aside the judgment of the learned trial court. the murder reference was answered in negative accordingly. the petitioner state being aggrieved by filed leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave appeal. the case is heard today. briefly, the facts of the case are that sip sher khan sho police station gilgit on the written application of the complainant namely sheikh abbas ali son of shaban ali resident of amphary page gilgit has registered an fir no. under section explosive substances act, read with section and -l of the anti -terrorism act, and section -a and ppc. the complainant stated in his written application that on .. at about pm near imamia mosque, in front of noble book center, three () terrorists boarded in a white car while coming from punial road, threw a hand grenade which exploded at a distance of some feet from the same shop. resultantly, three persons namely shabbir hussain son of ghulam mehdi, hussain malik son of noor malik and ibrahim alyas got injured. similarly, two vehicles bea ring nos. aak and ncp-glt-- which were parked at the place of occurrence have been badly damaged. due to the said explosion, the nearest shops were also damaged. these terrorists have made a plan to disturb the peace and tranquility of the area. zafar hussain son of akhtar hussain resident of dak pura and fida hussain son of muhammad ib rahim resident of maherban pura are the eye witnesses of the occurrence. after completion of investigation challan against the accused was submitted before the learned trial court on ... the respondent accused was formally charged on .. wherein he pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial. the prosecution in order to prove its case against the respondent, examined pws and produced explosive expert report etc. after closing the prosecution evidenc e, the accused was page examined under section cr. pc. the accused denied to record his statement on oath under section () cr. pc and he also did not produced any defence witnesses. the learned trial court after appraising the prosecution evidence and other material on record and upon hearing both the learned counsels for the respective parties and on proven guilty convicted and sentenced him under section -a of explosive substance act, under section -d ppc read with section of ant i-terrorism act, vide ... the operative part of the said judgment is reproduced as under: quote hence, i convict accused sher ghayas under section of the explosive substances act, and sentence him to death. he be hanged by his neck till he be dead. whole of the property of the accused sher ghayas is hereby forfeited in fovour of the government as provided under section -a of the explosive substances act, accused sher ghayas is also hereby convicted under sec tion -d ppc read with section (c) of the anti -terrorism act, and sentence him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and to pay fine of rs, (rupees three hundred thousand only). in default thereof the convict accused to suffer impris onment for six months. the amount of fine, if recovered shall be paid to the injured, hussain malik, shabbir hussain, ibrahim, saqlain akbar and zafar hussain. accused sher ghayas is also hereby convicted under section ppc and sentence him to undergo imprisonment for two years. benefit of section (b) cr. pc be given to the convict accused. unquote page the respondent accused being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the judgment of the learned trial court filed criminal appeal no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was allowed the appeal by majority decision. the learned advocate general submits that it was a promptly lodged fir against the respondent accused. the allegations leveled against the respondent have been substantiated by the prosecution through direct evidence, extra judicial confession, confessional statement of the accused, circumstantial evidence and explosive exper report. per learned advocate general, the respondent confessed the crime during recording of his statement. the site plan of the place of occurrence has been prepared on the pointation of the respondent accused in presence of the magistrate. he submits hat the prosecution has proved its case against the respondent beyond reasonable doubts which was rightly been appreciated by the learned trial court which was reversed by the learned chief court. per learned advocate general, the learned chief court faile to appreciate the prosecution evidence and other material on record while passing the impugned judgment which is not sustainable. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned judgment the learned chief court. he contends that no eye witness supported the prosecution case. admittedly, it was dark at the place of occurrence. the eye witnesses have not seen anybody throwing page explosive substance from car being complete dark. similarly, there is not an iota of evidence against the respondent which connect him with the commission of crime. per learned counsel, the case a gainst the respondent is false and fabricated one. the prosecution relied upon the confessional statement of the respondent recorded under section -h of anti -terrorism act, in presence of eye witnesses who have not seen and identified the respondent while committing the offence such confession loses its credibility. he contends that the co -accused namely asif khan and zahid hussain who hav been attributed the same role were acqui tted by the learned trial court. per learned counsel, the respondent has also entitled for acquittal on the principle of consistency further, he state did not file any acquittal them in the learned chief court. likewise, another co -accused i.e. samiullah who as per prosecution supplied the grenade to another absconder accused namely arif -ud-din was acquitted by the learned trial court in absentia. he submits that the prosecution has miserab ly failed to prove its case against the respon dent beyond any shadow of doubt. the judgment of the learned trial court was passed contrary to the facts and law which was not sustainable which was rightly been set aside by the learned chief court. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, appraised the prosecution evidence, perused the other material on record of the case file and gone through the impugned judgment as well as judgment the learned page trial court. admittedly, no eye witness supported the prosecution case. the prosecution miserably failed to prove the case against the respondent beyond reasonable doubt. in our considered view, the impugned judgment is well reasoned and well founded and interference is warranted into it. the learned advocate general also could not point out any infirmity and mis -appreciation of evidence in the impugned judgment. in view of the above discussions, we dismiss this appeal. consequently, the impugned .. the learned chief court is maintained. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?