page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit. c.p.l.a. no. chief judge. judge. the chief secretary gilgit -baltis tan. settlement officer gilgit. deputy commissioner gilgit. tehsildar gilgit. petitioner appellant abdul ghani sajjad khan rahim noor jutial gilgit. respondent plantiffs leave to the impugned order judgmen dated --, the -baltistan, whereby the appeal of appellant has been rejected and the order of district --, and order judgment of civiljudge gilgit dated --, have been upheld. present: advocate general gilgit baltistan for petitioners. malik shafqat wali, senior advocate, for respondents. date of hearing: --. judgment: this appeal by leave of the court has been directed by the provincial government against the impugned --, the learned single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan, whereby second appeal preferred on behalf of appellant has been dismissed and impugned judgments decrees pas sed by the learned lower courts below has been kept intact. the brief background of the litigation as narrated by the respondent plaintiff are, that the plaintiff respondent filed a declaratory suit with consequential relief to the effect, that the laintiffs respondent are the owners and in possession of suit land khasra no. measuring kanal marlas as per allotment file no., situated at muza jutial tehsil and district gilgit. it is further been narrated in the plaint that the defendant petitioner may be restrained from interfering and forcibly taking possession of the suit land. i has been mentioned in the plaint, that the defendant petitioner have wrongly made entries in revenue record for the year which needs cancellation, for the sake of justice. moreover, defendant respondent no. may be directed to correct the revenue record and restore the ownership of plaintiff respondent the suit was resisted by defendant petitioner no. to who denied the plea of ownership the plaintiff and also the plea regarding the un -disputed possession over the suit land. petitioner defendant filed their written statement on05 --. in view of the divergent pleadings of the parties twelve issues were framed by the learned trail court and directed both the parties for adducing their evidence in pro and contra. page plaintiff respondent relied on their statements of () three pw,s and also produced documentary evidence ex.p to which relates to the allotment proceedings. they further relied on exh.p and exh.p as the copies of revenue record prepared in in favour of plaintiff respondent on behalf of petitioner defendants. while the defendant petitioner adduced three dw,s and they do not filed documentary evidence with written statement. we have heard the arguments of the learned counsel for the parties and also perused the relevant record with full care and caution. the learned advocate general argued and pointed out that during pendency of second appeal before the chief court gilgit baltistan, the petitioner defendant no. conducted an inquiry regarding the allotment order issued by the then assistant political agent in the through inquiry has made. it crystal clear that the allotment order in favour of plaintiff respondent is fake and bogus one. the said inquiry report dated06 --, was presented before the baltistan for consideration, the learned single bench received the same and made the same as part of file. but th learned single bench did not consider the same which resulted in a great miscarriage of justice, as such the impugned judgment decree is not maintainable. he further argued that the land in question was allotted in the year through assistant polit ical agent gilgit. this version of the plaintiff respondent is totally wrong and mis -statement, because the f.c.r. system was abolished vide notification no.reg -hc-ntf dated --. it reveals that the f.c.r. was abolished quite a considerable period before the approval of the impugned misel. the respondent plaintiff submitted that the allotment file has been approved by the assistant political agent, whereas the same post was re -designated as s.d.m (sub division magistrate), as such the allot ment order alongwith its enclosures submitted by the respondent plaintiff are based on malafide, therefore, all the impugned judgments decree the learned lower courts are vague, ambiguous and misconceived as such not maintainable and liable to be set aside. the learned advocate general concluded with the last submission that this leave to appeal may kindly be accepted, to meet the end of justice. on the other hand the learned counsel for the respondent plaintiff (malik shafqat wali senior ad vocate) strongly opposed the arguments advanced by the learned advocate general gilgiot -baltistan and submitted that the main contention of the plaintiff respondent is, that suit land was allotted to them by the then competent authority in the year they were in possession of the suit land and accordingly, mutation no. dated -- was attested in their favour, while defendant petitioner no. illegally and without their knowledge have entered mutation no. in favour of petitioner defe ndants no., as such the act of petitioner defendant no. to is based on malafide, exparte and against revenue record, therefore, liable to be cancelled. he further argued that the possession of plaintiff respondent is substantiated by exh.p (khasra girdawari) dated --, beside this pw no. have deposed in favour of plaintiff respondent un -disturbed possession over the disputed land, it is a strong piece of evidence which could not be shattered in cross examination by state counsel. resul tantly, the plaintiff respondent proved their possession over the disputed land without any shadow of doubt. therefore, concurrent findings of the learned lower courts are correct, legal and not liable to be set aside. so far as additional issue is conce rned, the learned trial court has already framed material issue regarding allotment order, as such no further issues are required to be framed in this belated stage, therefore, the contention of the learned advocate general in respect of additional issue as no force at all. the learned counsel for the respondent further emphasized that the petitioner defendant have admitted the allotment of suit land in para no. written statement presented on --. the petitioner defendant have also admitted th at fact that neither the petitioner defendant have cancelled allotment, nor the validity of the same allotment has been challenged in the written statement submitted by the petitioner defendants, and even no pray has been preferred by the petitioner de fendants for cancellation of impugned allotment before the learned lower courts. so, the title of plaintiff respondent to the extent of suit land is almost admitted, as such the instant leave to appeal is liable to be dismissed with costs. page we have care fully attended the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties at length and have minutely perused the available record alongwith impugned judgments decrees of the learned lower courts with due care and caution. we found that the learned lowe courts have failed to exercise its jurisdiction so vested in it for the following reasons. both the learned lower courts including the single bench of chief court gilgit baltistan have failed to apply its mind towards framing of important and necessar issues regarding the allotment --, in the eye of law the findings of the courts without framing of issues have no legal sanctity at all. the same pattern has been applied in the present case. resultantly, concurrent findings of the lo wer courts shall not remain intact on the field. therefore, legally all efforts made by the lower judiciary may not be considered without framing of necessary issues. keeping in view the legal importance of the points which needs attention of this apex ourt, so we visited through order rule of c.p.c, which is being to reproduced to understand the same. (a) order rule of c.p.c. materials from which issues may be framed: the court may frame the issues from all or any of the following aterial: (a) allegation made on oath by the parties, or by any person present on their behalf, or made by the pleaders of such parties. (b) allegation made in the pleadings or in answers to interrogatories delivered in the suite. (c) the contents of documents produc ed by either party. (b) order rule of c.p.c. powers to amend and strike out, issues: () the court may at any time before passing a decree amend the issues or framed additional issues on such terms as it think fit and all such amendments or additional issues as may be necessary for determining the matters, in controversy between the parties shall be so made or framed. () the court may also, at any time before passing a decree, strike out any issues that a ppears to it to be wrongly framed or introduced. a careful study of the above relevant provision of law, it is very much clear, amend, or strikeout issues. the first part of rule vest discretion in the court, whilst the second part is mandatory in its term. therefore, the court has inherent powers to take cognizance of questions going to the root of the case at any stage of the proceedings. for this purpose proper issues must be framed i.e. whether the suit land was allotted in favour of plaintiff res pondents in the year if so, whether the system of assistant political agent was enforced at that time. likewise, the next and core issue is whether f.c.r was abolished quite a considerable period before the approval of the allotment file dated -- if so,whether the said allotment file no. is based on fraud, forgery, and factitious act the last and important issue is whether the impugned misel no shows as has been approved by the assistant political agent, whereas, the same post wa re-designated as s.d.m. (sub division magistrate) after abolishing of f.c.r. theses important issues and materials questions should be solved in first round of litigation but unfortunately it has been done so. i is undisputed that the trial courts en joys ample of jurisdiction to try all civil suits, but it needs determination here, whether the instant case has been disposed of by using page jurisdiction, so vested or not, all the judgments decrees impugned herein, are unfortunately perfunctory giving the i mpression of hasty off hand decisions, which are not incorrect in their result but also deficient in their contents. although it is pertinent to mention here that specifically in appeal able cases findings should be given after framing of necessary issues but the learned lower courts below have failed to frame important and necessary issues regarding allotment file no. sanctioned in favour of plaintiff respondents, whereas it is recognized principle of law, to frame issues and followed by judgment based on discussing each and every issue in detail, but the learned lower courts have violated the recognized principle of law. we are feeling with the painful result that in the instant case testing the entire proceeding of the case on the touchstone of the procedural law referred to above, the ultimate result would be, that the entire exercise adopted by the courts below was without framing of necessary and core issues and mere a buse of process of law. consequently, what has been discussed above, this petition is converted into appeal and allowed. the impugned judgments decrees of the courts below is set aside and case is remanded back to the trial court with the direction, to ecide the suit after framing of above quoted issues, which prima facie depends on the factual inquiry as well as the other issues arising out of the pleadings of the parties. since the matter is under litigation for a long time, the learned trial court i directed to dispose of the matter expeditiously to avoid further delay. there shall be no order as to costs. case remanded chief