page in the supreme appellate court, gilgit -baltistan, gilgit cr.p.l.a. no. chief judge. judge. the sate through advocate genera l, gilgit -baltistan. petitioner anwar kareem okharkoo, muhallah tappari, tehsil daghoni, district ghanche. respondent charge under section (b) p.p.c. vide f.i.r. dated --, police station thagus district ghanche. leave to appeal under article of (empowerment self governance) order, against the judgment acquittal of accused dated --, the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan. present: advocate general, gilgit baltistan for petitioner. senior advocate, for respondent accused. date of hearing: --- judgment syed jaffar shah, ----------- this appeal by leave of this court is directed against -- learned chief court, gilgit baltistan, in cr. appeal no. whereby the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan, while setting aside the --, learned additional sessions judge, ghanche acquitted the respondent in a case registered under section p.p.c vide f. i. r. no. at police station thagus, district ghanche. page the brief facts as contained in the f.i.r are that the f.i.r. lodger who happened to be s.h.o. polic station thagu, on receiving a spy information that a dead body is lying on a hill in thagus area proceeded to the place where the dead body was lying. according to the contents of f.i.r. when the s.h.o alongwith notables of the area reached near the place of occurrence found a dead body of a female in a decomposed condition lying between stones. the dead body was shifted to d.h.q. khapulo for autopsy purpose where doctors conducted the post mortem of dead body and it was found that the deceased was mst. kulsoom hassan. during investigation under section cr. p. it trans pired that deceased was married to respondent anwar. after completion of necessary investigation under section cr.p.c. the police arrested the respondent accused as a suspect and registered f.i.r. no. and carried out further investigation. dur ing the course of investigation it revealed that due to involvement of deceased in immoral activit ies, the respondent wanted to do away with the life of deceased and before the occurrence the respondent and the deceased were lastly seen by some pw procee ding towards the place of occurrence. it is also the case of the prosecution that after commission of offence accused hibernated himself for a considerable time. the police after completion of necessary investigation submitted the report in terms of cr. p.c. before the trial court and the trial court framed charge against accused respon dent, recorded statements of prosecution witnesses as well as the statement of accused under section cr. p.c. the trial court on assessment of evidence convicted he accused respondent under section (b) p.p.c. and sentenced him to life imprisonment and also directed payment of compensation amounting to rs. to the legal heirs of deceased as provided under section (a) cr.p.c. page having been aggrieved an dissatisfied with the judgment the trial court, the respondent filed criminal his conviction before the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan, which was accepted vide -- and consequently the conviction record ed buy the trial court was set aside and the accused respondent was acquitted as stated above. we have heard the learned counsel for the parties at a considerable length, the learned advocate general gilgit baltistan, vehemently opposed the judgment re corded by the chief court, gilgit baltistan, and contended that in view of confessional statement recorded by a judicial magistrate coupled with circumstantial evidence, the respondent was liable for conviction. he further went on saying that the accused respondent had brutally killed his wife as such the trial court had rightly convicted the respondent but the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan, in utter disregard of available material on record acquitted him merely on technical reason as such the im pugned judgment is not warranted in the eyes of law. he also added that the acquittal order learned chief court is result of misreading non -reading of the evidence and misinterpretation of relevant law as such not maintainable and under the circ umstances it is fit case for interference of this court on the question of facts as well as law. on the other hand the learned counsel for the respondent accused controverted the above submissions of learned advocate general and conte nded that the occurrence is an unseen occurrence, the motive for murder is not proved, the circumstantial evidence produced by the prosecution is of no worth credence, the so called retracted confessional statement attributed to the respondent accused is no value in the eyes of law having not been recorded in accordance with procedure laid down in section and cr. p.c. at the fag end of his arguments he submitted that the chief court keeping in view all legal and factual aspects of the case has ri ghtly acquitted the respondent as such the impugned judgment is maintainable. page we have al so perused the relevant record of the case with the able assistance of the learned counsel for both the parties and have also gone through the relevant law in the lig ht of arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the parties. the prosecution has based its case mainly on confessional statement and last seen evidence. so for as confessional statement of accused respondent is concerned, no sanctity could be attached to it because methodly of recording confessional statement as laid down in sac. and cr.p.c has not been adopted by magistrate. the learned magistrate who had recorded confessional statement of accused respondent has admitted course of cross exam ination by the defence counsel that he has not put any question to the defence counsel that he has not put any question to the statement maker regarding torture by police and it is also admitted by the magistrate that confessional statement of the accused was recorded on oath moreover the accused respondent was not back to police lockup in case he declines to make confessional statement. non fulfillment of such requirements while recording confessional statement of the accused respondent will lead to an illegality not cureable u cr. p.c as provision of section and are mandatory in nature. it is settled law of land that confession not recorded in conformity with provision of section cr. p.c section cr. p.c will not be a judicia confession in the eyes of law and sentence could not be based on such confessional is under legal obligation to comply with the provision of law and any violation or departure to law would render the confessional statement as not admissible it is also bligatory for the magistrate to certify at the foot of the statement that he has fulfilled all the legal requirement while recording the statement which he has failed to do in the present case. in the light of above discussion, wee hold that this confessional statement cannot be a basis for conviction of the accused and learned chief court has rightly ruled it out of consideration so learned chief court has rightly ruled it out of consideration so for as the last seen evidence is concerned some imparti al and dis -interested witnesses have deposed before the page trial court that they had seen the deceased and respondent while proceeding to the mountain where -from the dead body of the deceased was recovered. this piece of evidence is believable but it cannot sufficient evidence for awarding major penalty as provided u (b) p.p.c in absence of other corroborative evidence i.e. medical or other evidence. as according to postmortem report exhibit pw- a the death of deceased is not proved to be result of physical violence. the doctor who conducted the postmortem of the dead body was examined by the trial court as pw states that it could not be ascertained whether the death was caused due to physical violence, he is also of the opinion that death of dec eased could be result of attack of some wiled best. in the attending circumstances and in the light of available record it cannot be said with certainty that death of deceased was caused as a result of physical violence and there is no evidence to connec the accused respondent with an offence of qatal -e-ahmad. qatal -e-ahmad has been defined in section p. p.c as under: section -. qatal -e-ahmad whoever, with the intention of causing death or with the intention of causing bodily injury to a person, doing an act which in the ordinary course of nature is likely to case death, or with the knowledge that his act is so imminently dangerous that it must in all probability cause death, cause the death of such person, is said to commit qatal -e- ahmad. and punishment for qatal -e-ahmad has been categorized in section in the three different categories i.e. (a) death as a qisas (b) imprisonment for life as tazir (c) up to years imprisonment where sub clause (a) and (b) are not attracted. from perusal of available aterial on record no offence u p.p.c is made out against the respondent accused. however there is sufficient evidence to the effect that the deceased was lastly page seen in the company of accused respondent while proceeding towards the place of occurren ce. this last seen evidence of disinterested and impartial witnesses could not be impeached by the defence during course of cross examination. according to this piece of evidence the accused respondent and deceased were seen while proceedings towar ds the place of occurrence. the place of occurrence admittedly is hilly area from where the dead body of the deceased was recovered. so this possibility cannot be ruled out that the accused respondent took the deceased in the mountain from a difficult terrain an left her over there and being a women folk she could not ascend from there and became prey of wild beast or due to some other accused respondent thereafter disappeared from the area for a considerable time and did not bother to inquire whereabouts of he dec eased. taking the deceased to a mountain and leaving her there amounts to cause of death of deceased within the mischief of qatal -e-sabab as defined in section of pakistan penal court. so in the light of above discussion we accept this appeal and convict the accused respondent u p.p.c for committing qatal -e- bis- sabab which provides payment of diyat, the accused respondent is directed to pay an amount of rs. to the legal heirs of deceased mst. kulsoom hasan as diyat in equal installments as provided in section p.p.c the amount of diyat so deposited by the convict anwar in the trial court shall be disbursed among the legal heirs of deceased according to their shari -shares. in case of non -deposit of amount of diyat wi thin a period of there years by the convict anwar the trial court shall proceed to recover the same as arrears of lan. appeal allowed this case was heard on19 -- and judgment was announced in open court on the same day. the undersigned relinquishe the office of chief blatistan on .., whereas, the judgment has been sent for signature on25.. with the delay of about more than month. the proprietary would not permit the undersigned to put his signature on the judgment at this belated stage and re -hearing of the case is suggested in due course of time. chief