page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. the state petitioner. nadeem abbas others respondents. present: the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general for the petitioner state. -on-record for the petitioner. nemo for respondent no. i.e. nadeem abbas inspite of repeated notices. -on-record for the espondent no. is not present. -on-record respondent no. is not present. date of hearing: ... date of announcement of judgment:- ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal leave to appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in r. appeal no the learned chief court whereby the said cr. appeal filed by the respondent was accepted by acquitting all the accused from the charges leveled against them. the petitioner being aggrieved filed this criminal leave to appeal. this court vide page .. issued notices to the respondent and the case was heard on ... consequently, the judgment was reserved. briefly, the fact of the case are that on .. at about hours the sho police station city gilgit has registered an fir no. under section ppc on the written murasila submitted by the sip faqeer muhammad. the said sip faqeer muhammad stated that on .. at about hours on information received from the dhq hospital that one shabana akhtar doulat ali resident of chonga astore, who was under trainee nu rse committed the suicide by hang ing herself with the ceiling fan of dining hall of th hostel. the said sip arrived at dhq hospital and carried out the proceedings under section cr. pc. during the recording of the statements of witnesses, the suicide of the accused was found suspicious by the said sip who accordingly sought permission from judicial magistrate gilgit to further probe into the case. consequently, he proceeded under section cr.pc. during the said proceedings it was revealed by accused nadeem abbas son of ghulam abbas barmas that one syed jarar hussain son of syed asghar shah amphary, ishfaq hussain son of muhammad sharif and shafqat son of jaffar ali henzal have sent illicit messages on the mobile of deceased shabana akhtar and threatened her for disclosing playing her videos in whole of the hos pital. the said illicit messages sent by the accused caused her to commit suicide being mentally torture d. upon the said disclosure, the accused were arrested by the police page but due to non -availability of incriminating materials th said accused were discha rged by declaring innocent by the police under section cr. pc. on .. the accused nadeem abbas was arrested. during the investigation, accused nadeem abbas admitted that he alongwith co -accused jamila bibi committed the offence of the murder deceased. the accused nadeem abbas has illicit relation with co -accused jamila bibi. they had recorded a sexual affair in their mobile and the same has been saved in memory card. later on, the said memory card was misplaced by co accused and found by the deceased. consequently, the deceased used to blackmail the co -accused on the basis of the said memory card. consequent thereto, accused nadeem abbas and co -accused jamila bibi planned to eliminate the deceased and to get the said memory card from her. as per plan they called the deceased in the room of jamila bibi at pm. the deceased sat beside accused nadeem abbas as she had also illicit affairs with him which was disclosed by the said accused. later on, accused jamila bibi called accused nadeem abbas out of the room and gave him a tissue paper sprayed with chloroform to make the deceas ed unconscious. after coming back at room, accused nadeem abbas sudden ly put the same tissue on the mouth and nose of the deceased resultantly she became unconscious. during her unconsciousness, accused nadeem abbas committed rape with her. whereafter accused nadeem abbas murdered the deceased by pressing her throat. meanwhi le, the co -accused called accused ijlal hussain (watchman) page to take his help to hand the dead body of the deceased in the dining hall. they hanged her dead body with the ceiling fan of dining hall pretending that she has committed suicide. the sho police st ation city gilgit has prepared challan against accused nadeem abbas under section ppc and submitted for legal opinion to prosecution branch. in the meantime, this court has taken suo moto notice on the application submitted by doulat ali father of dece ased shabana akhtar. this court vide .. issued directions to dig crime to constitute a jit for carry ing out the investigation of the instant case under the anti terrorism act, it is further directed to dig investigation to take ne cessary steps for examination of dead body of deceased in presence of magistrate by the medical board of doctors of pims islamabad vide ... on the said directions, the government of pakistan, kashmir affairs gilgit -baltistan division islamabad constituted a board of doctors vide letter no. dy. gb -ii dated ... the board of doctors was consisted upon dr. muhammad naseer forensic specialist dy. director, dr. muhammad yousuf medical officer. dr. nasreen butt, cmo and dr. anveer afsar malik, medical officer pims islamabad. after conducting re -postmortem on the dead body of deceased shabana akhtar, the medical board has submitted their examination report on ... after completion of the investigation, on .. incomplete challan no. was submitted before the learned page trial court against accused nadeem abbas, accused jamila bibi, house mother, midwifery hostel, gilgit, accused ijlal hussain, security guard, midwifery hostel gilgit. the names of accused syed jaffar hussain, shafqat ali, ishfaq hussain and dr. muhammad yaqoob apmo dhq hospital gilgit were placed in column no. of the challan while the name of dr. dilshad begum was shown as absconder by making her name with red ink. later on, after confirmati on of bail before arrest of accused dr. dilshad begum, complete challan no. was submitted before the trial court by the jit on ... the accused nadeem abbas, accused jamila bibi, accused ijlal hussain, accused dilshad begum and accused dr. wazir muhammad were formally charged on ... the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. the prosecution to prove their case against the accused produced and examined pws. after the close of the prosecution evidence the accused were examined under section cr.pc. the accused had not opted to appear record their statements under section () cr.pc and they also did not produce any witnesses in support of their defence. the learned trial court after appraising the evidence and material on record, hearing the learned counsels for the respective parties and upon proven guilty convicted sentenced the respondent nadeem abbas, jamila bibi and ijlal hussain under section (b) read with section (a) of the anti -terrorism act, page whereas co -accused dr. dilshad begum dr. wazir muhammad were acquitted. the operative part of the said judgment is hereby reproduced as under: quote para -. in view of the discussions made in paras no. to above, the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of accused doctor dilshad begum and accused doctor wazir muhammad in the instant case. prosecution evidence is quite insufficient to convict the above named accused. hence, keeping in view the insufficient evidence, accused doctor dilshad begum and accused doctor wazir muhammad are hereby acquitted from the charges leveled against them in the instant case. the bail bonds of the said accused are al so hereby discharged. para -. in view of the above discussions made in paras no. to and paras no. to my findings against accused nadeem abbas, accused jamila bibi and accused ijlal hussain are as under: (i) after evaluation of the entire evidence of prosecution, i am of the considered opinion that prosecution has proved its case against accused nadeem abbas, accused jamila bibi and accused ijlal hussain beyond any shadow of doubt by providing sufficient evidence in the shape of confessiona statements of the above named three accused, extra judicial confession of accused nadeem abbas, recovery of pillow, cd ex.p1 and call and messages record. (ii) no mitigating circumstances are available in favour of the accused nadeem abbas, accused jamil a bibi as they have put the pillow on the mouth of deceased shabana akhtar in furtherance of their common intention. the manner in which the accused have committed the murder of deceased shabana akhtar, who was under trainee nurse, does not call for any le niency in the sentence. (ii) in the light of the above discussion, i hold that the prosecution has proved guilt of accused nadeem abbas, accused jamila bibi for murder of deceased shabana akhtar in furtherance of their common page intention, hence, i convict ac cused nadeem abbas under section (b) read with section (a) of the anti -terrorism act, and sentence him to death. he be hanged by his neck till he be died. the accused shall pay fine of rs. (rupees three lac). the amount of fine, if rec overed shall be paid to the lrs of deceased shabana akhtar under section -a cr.pc. i, convict accused jamila bib under section (b) read with section (a) of the anti terrorism act, and sentence her to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and also fine of rs. (rupees three lac). the amount of fine, if recovered shall be paid to the lrs of deceased shabana akhtar under section -a cr.pc. in default of payment of fine by the convict accused, they shall undergo rigorous imprisonment or two years. (iv) i, convict accused ijlal hussain under section ppc and sentence him to rigorous imprisonment for a term of (seven) years and to pay fine of rs. (rupees one lac). the amount of fine, if recovered shall be paid to the lrs of deceased shabana akhtar under section -a cr.pc. (v) i, also convict accused ijlal hussain under section ppc and sentence him to imprisonment for a term of (six) months. (vi) benefit of section (b) cr. pc be given to the convict accused. unquote the learned advocate general submits that although the occurrence is unseen as there is no eye witness yet it based upon extra judicial confession, confession of the accused, corroborative circumstantial evidence, corroborative medical evidence, recoveries on the pointation of the respondent and other material on record which connect the respondent with the commission of planned murder of shabana akhtar. he also submits that the respondent have admitted their guilt voluntarily recorde under section -h of page the anti -terrorism act, per learned advocate general, respondent have pointed out the place of occurrence in presence of magistrate. on the pointation of accused jamila bibi, the investiga tion officer (i.o) has taken in to his possession one pillow and the said pillow has identified by accused nadeem abbas which was used by him to commit the murder of deceased shabana akhtar. the respondent have also indentified the dopatta which was used by the accused for hanging the dead bo dy of deceased on ceiling fan of the dining hall. he submits that on the directions of this apex court the government of pakistan, kashmir affairs gilgit baltistan division islamabad has constituted a medical board, consisting of doctors of pims, who have conducted re postmortem of the dead body of deceased shabana akhtar and submitted their exhumation postmortem report. according to the said report previously no internal postmortem was conducted by doctor dilshad begum. the le arned advocate general further submits that dr. dilshad begum has prepared autopsy report countersigned by dr. wazir muhammad without conducting the postmortem on the dead body of deceased. he submits that the respondent have voluntarily confessed their guilt before pw- syed gaib ali shah, the magistrate and pw shahid hussain while making the movie for cd whose evidence remained unrebutted as well as their credibility are also remain unchallenged. the cds were page played in the court and the accused ave been asked question who have admitted the recoveries on their pointation. he submits that the learned trial court has rightly convicted the respondent in accordance with law and the said judgment was wrongly reversed by the learned chief court vide impugned majority ... he prays that the impugned judgment may graciously be set aside by maintaining the judgment of the learned trial court. in supports of above contentions, the learned advocate general relied upon case laws reported as scmr scmr on the other hand, supports the impugned judgment and contends that section of the anti-terrorism act, was is not attracted in this case. he also submits that motivation to criminal murders was purely based upon a personal and private grievance, which did not create fear and insecurity in society. per learned counsel, there is no eye wi tness of the alleged occurrence and no direct evidence available on record against the accused. the height of the roof of the dining hall is feet and the height of deceased was feet inches as such the deceased can approach the ceiling fan easily or hanging erself. he further contends that the cd and movie prepared by investigation officer (i.o) in presence of magistrate is not admissible in page evidence. there are contradictions between the statements of magistrate and cd. he submits that the recover of pillow and dopatta is doubtful which cannot be used as circumstantial evidence against the respondents. per learned counsel, the confessional statement of accused recorded under section -h of the anti -terrorism act, is not admissible in evidence. he contends that as per prosecution story, the tissue wrapped with chloroform was used to make the deceased unconscious but the same has not been recovered either from the place of occurre nce or from the accused which makes the case of the prosecution doubtful. in addition to the oral arguments the learned counsel for the respondent no. also submitted written arguments. per learned counsel, the statement of pw syed gaib ali shah is not admissible in evidence under article of qanoon -e-shahadat order, he reiterates that the confession made by the respondent in police custody cannot be proved against respondent of any offence. the confession and facts narrated by the respondent while they were in custody is inadmissible in evidence. there is no direct evidence available against the respondent except the statement of pw syed gaib ali shah in whose presence alleged ly the respondent have confessed their guilt. conviction on the testimony of syed gaib ali shah cannot be passed. the extra judicial confession made by accused at the time when he was in custody of the police is page inadmissible in evidence. the confessional statement and evidence of recoveries are purely a corroborative in nature are not capable to bring home charge against accused in absence of direct, substantive or direct evidence. the conviction can not be based on any other type of evidence. he further contends that criminal leave to appeal has been filed against three () accused namely nadeem abbas, jamila bibi and ijlal hussain. consequently, notices against jamila bibi and ijlal hussain have been served upon whereas notice against nadeem abbas has not been served upon, hence, criminal etition for leave to appeal cannot be heard in absence of co -accused unless he has been declared absconder by this apex court. the procedur for declaration of the abscons ion of co -accused nadeem abbass has not been ordered by this th erefore, criminal leave to appeal cannot be heard separately. co accused nadeem abbass may be issued notices according to the procedure to procure his atte ndance for the hearing of this case. the accused is required to be heard jointly as provided under the law. while saying so he relied upon the case laws reported as pcr.lj pcr.lj scmr ylr scmr cr. lj ylr cr. lj scmr and mld per learned counsel, the prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case against page the re spondents. there is no eye witness who has seen the occurrence. the case is based on circumstantial evidence which are contradictory in nature. the learned trial court fell in error by convicting the respondent which has rightly been reversed by the learned chief court vide its majority decision. he prays that the impugned judgment may graciously be maintained. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment as well as the judgment the learned trial court case laws relied upon by the learned counsel for the respective parties. we have also perused the confessional statement of the respondent no. nadeem abbas, jamila bibi respondent no. ijlal hussain respondent no. and gone through the deposition of pw syed ghaib ali shah and pw shahid hussain, who are independent witnesses whose evidence are inspiring confidence. we have also gone through the medical and circumstantial evidence which is corroborative in nature and connects the chain in proving against the respondent for the commission of the rutal murder of the innocent girl. the evidence of pw-, syed ghaib ali shah is corroborative in nature. he is an independent witness who on the request by the office of the assistant commissioner gilgit was associated to inspect the site plan on the poin tation of the respondent no. page nadeem abbas. admittedly, the police alongwith the respondent no. nadeem abbas and the said witness i.e. magistrate syed ghaib ali shah arrived at the place of the occurrence separately. police and the said pw came out fr om their respective vehicles. the respondent no. nadeem abbas at that time voluntarily narrated the true facts to the said pw i.e. syed ghaib ali shah in presence of another witness pw shahid hussain about the fateful murder of the girl by him and re spondent no. jamila bibi. the statement of the said pw were recorded under section cr. pc before the investigating officer (i.o) who corroborated the same in the learned trial court as well. the examination in-chief of both pw- i.e. syed ghaib ali shah and pw shahid hussain for convenience are reproduced as under: quote pw- statement of syed ghaib ali shah on oath. i am performing my duties as magistrate since last two years. on .. on the written request of ip hafeez -ur-rehman the ac sdm has deputed me for pointation of place of the occurrence by accused nadeem abbass. according i went to investigation wing gilgit. ip hafeez -ur-rehman told me that we are going to place of occurrence midwifery hostel gilgit alongwith accused nadeem abbass for the pointation of the place of occurrence and i should reach there. accordingly i went to the said place when i reached at the place of occurrence dig crimes, dr. muhammad yaqoob and dsp muhammad ibrahim were also present there. in my presence accused nadeem abbas told that he has entered from the main gate of family wing hospital into mid wifery hostel. he further told th at in the corridor of the said hostel the door of hostel was opened by accused jameela and taken me in her room. the accused further told page that in the room of accused jameela bibi the accused sit on the bed between the accused jameela and deceased shabana a khtar. deceased shabana akhtar was called by accused jameela bibi. the accused further told that accused jameela bibi went out from the room and called deceased shabana akhtar. accused jameela gave a tissue and spray to accused nadeem abbas to make unconsc ious the accused shabana akhtar. the accused nadeem abbas further told that he went back in the room and did not use the spray because he thought it would be dangerous for him also therefore he used the tissue and made deceased unconscious. he further told that he committed rape with deceased. after rape accused jameela bibi entered in the room and asked that he should finished the deceased shabana akhtar otherwise it would be dangerous for us. the accused nadeem abbas further stated that accused jameela bi bi gave him a pillow and then he kept on the mouth of the deceased shabana akhtar and she died. the accused nadeem abbas further told before me that he and accused jameela bibi took the dead body in a bed sheet and taken in the door of dining hall, but hey could not take it as it was heavy. accused jameela bibi called accused ijlal hussain to help them. firstly, accused ijlal hussain refused to take the dead body with them and stated you have done big mistake, however, on the threatened given by accused nadeem abbas and accused jameela bibi accompanied with them for hanging the dead body. the accused nadeem abbas further told in my presence that firstly they put the dead body on a tool and then a chair from tool and then on the table and then on the help of accused jameela bibi and ijlal hussain hanged the dead body on the ceiling fan of dining hall of the said hostel. i asked from accused nadeem abbas, who has brought the dopatta for hanging. accused nadeem abbas was replied that the dopatta was brought accused jameela. in presence of psp, dr. yaqoob and dig i asked the accused to touch the fan from the table. accordingly he easily touched the fan. in my presence the io prepared the site plan of the place of the occurrence on the pointation of accused nadeem abbass. the site plan expw a bears my signature and the same is correct. in my present and the presence of the pw nadeem abbas, ijlal hussain and jameela bibi have identified the dupputta, which was used by the said accused for hanging the death body of deceased shabana akhter on ceing fan. the identification memo expw bears my signature and its contents are correct. on .. in my presence and presence of page the pws accused jameela bibi has produced a pillow from the room of house mother idwifery hostel, which was taken into possession by the io, vide recovery memo expw c. the recovery memo expw bears my signature and is correct. on the same date accused nadeem abbass has identified the pilow, which was used by him to commit the mu rder of the deceased shabana akhter. the identification memo expw bears my signature and it is correct. in my presence the io has prepared site plan expw a of recovery of pillow on the pointation of accused jamila bibi from the room of accused jamee la bibi. the site plan expw a bears my signature and is correct. pw- statement of shahid hussain habib khan resident of khomer working as photographer investigation wing gilgit on oath i am performing my duties as photographer in police department gilgit since on .. i was present in investigation wing gilgit, where magistrate gaib ali shah pw came there. in his presence a dopatta veil, which was white in color and its cor ner were red fitta, which contained blood stains. in my presence and presence of the magistrate accused nadeem abbass, ijlal hussain and jameela bibi confessed their guilt, regarding committing the murder of deceased shabana akhtar. accordingly i made mov ie and prepared cd of the said movie and handed over to ip hafeez io of the case. on .. in my presence and presence of pw syed gaib ali shah accused nadeem abbas was taken to the place of occurrence situated in the dining hall of nursing hostel. in our presence accused confessed his guilt and stated that i have hanged the deceased mst. shabana akhtar on the ceiling fan of the said hostel. accordingly i made movie of his confession and prepared his cd and handed over to the ip hafeez -ur-rehman. unquote the statement of the above prosecution witness es remained unrebutted and their credibility was also no challenged by the defence counsels. no question was asked by the learned defense counsel in disbelieving their testimony. the opinion of the medical page board after exhumation and postmortem of the deceased is also corroborative in nature which has been exhibited through pw -. the said opinion of pw dr. muhammad nasir is hereby reproduced as under: quote opinion. the board is of the opinion that deceased died due to injury no. which caused obstruction of upper respiratory tract, which resulted in anoxia leading to dead. this injury marks is homicidal in nature and before this she has been violated as evident from injury no. to injury no. all these injuries were ante mortem in nature and were sufficient to cause death in an ordinary course of life unquote on cross -examination by the learned defence counsel, this prosecution witness deposed that cause of death was not hanging but it was due to homicidal strangulation. as objected by the learned counsel for respondent no. the said procedure for procurement of the presence of respondent no. is mandatory for the learned trial court, however, this court adopted all the measures for procurement of the presence of the respondent no. nadeem abbas who despite of notices sent to him through all mod es and received by his family and concerned sho sp and inspite of having knowledge of this case, opted not to appear in this court. in such situation created by the respondent no. nadeem abbas, this court heard the case on page the material on record delivering this judgment in its own merits in accordance with law. the above objection of the learned counsel for the respondent no. is overruled. the case laws cited by him are distinguishable whereas the case laws cited by the learned advocate general are applicable. in the light of above discussions, appraising the prosecution evidence and other material on record, in our considered view, the prosecution has proved its case against the respondent namely nadeem abba ss, jameela bibi and ijlal hussain for the brutal murder of the deceased shabana akhtar beyond any shadow of doubts. we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequent thereto, the impugned .. in crimin al appeal no. the learned chief court is set aside whereas the .. in tc. no. the learne trial court is hereby maintained. the conviction and sentence(s) awarded by the learned trial court are also maintained. the respondent are directed to surrender themselves before the learned trial court to serve out their sentences accordingly. the murder reference no. of the respondent no. convict nadeem abbas sent by the learned trial co urt was answered in negative by the learned chief court, is also set aside. the murder reference no. of the respondent no. page nadee abbas is answered in positive. the copy of this judgment be sent to the learned trial court for compliance. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.