page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. the state petitioner. ashfaq hussain another respondents. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the petitioner. nemo for the respondents. both the respondent are present in person. ... judgment cj..... this criminal cancellation of bail has arisen out of the impugned .. in cr. misc. no. the learned chief court whereby the said cr. miscellaneous application filed by the respondent was allowed. the respondent were granted bail subject to furnish bail bonds in the sum of rs. ,, (rupees ten lac only) with two sureties each in the like amount to the satisfaction of rial court, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. page briefly, the facts of the case are that an fir no. under section -a, ppc was registered at police station basin district gilgit against the respondent on the written application of one muzamil hussain son of musa khan. the complainant did not nominated anyone in the said fir rather stated that his brother is missing since ... the search of the brother of the complainant was carried out and the dead body of deceased was recovered from sharote dass on ... the dead body exposed that the death was caused due to arm fire injuries and violence. the local police started investigation of the case and arrested some other suspects, who were later on eleased due to insufficient evidence. the present respondent were arrested and during investigation they were found involved in commission of the offence. the respondent applied post arrest bail in the court of learned additional sessions ... the respondent being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed cr. misc. no. before the learned chief court which upon hearing was allowed. the learned advocate general submits that the re are sufficient materials and reasonable grounds on record to believe that the respondent were involved in the commission of the alleged offence. he also submits that although the provisions of section cr. pc are not punitive in nature yet in case, the prosecution has sufficient ma terials against the respondents, the bail is not to be granted in a murder case. per learned advocate general, page sufficient material was available on record which prime facie connects the respondent with the commission of the offence with an active connivance of the main accused nabi shah. the grant of bail at this stage was not warranted as offence of murder was committed in a pre -planned manner. per learned advocate general, the learned chief court fell in error while granting bail to the respondent on the ground of further inquiry which is not tenable in law. he submits that the bail granted to the respondent by the learned chief court may graciously be set aside. we have heard the learned advocate general at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned .. in cr. misc. no. the learned chief court. admittedly, the murder was a blind murder and no one was nominated in the fir. the police arrested some suspects who were later on released under section cr. pc. the details of the occurrence were unearthed by nabi shah who disclosed that he alongwith respondent co -accused committed the murder of deceased. police on his tilt of arrested the remaining co accused. as per prosecution record separate fir under section ao have been registered against accused nabi shah for keeping in his possession arm without a valid license. no recovery has been effected from the present respondents. in our consider view, the learned chief court has rightly granted the bail to the respondent and the same is well reasoned and well founded. the learned page advocate general also could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the impugned order the learned chief court. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. in cr. misc. no. the learned chief court the learned chief court is maintained. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.