page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. the state through police station nomal gilgit petitioner. ali ahmed jan asghar qazalbash muhallah gilgit respondent. present: the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general for the state petitioner. nemo for the respondent. date of hearing: .. date of announcement of judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal petition has been directed against the impugned .. in cr. appeal no. the learned chief court whereby the said cr. appeal filed by the respondent was accepted by setting aside the conviction sentence to the extent of the offences punishable under section ppc read with section of the anti -terrorism ac t, vide fir no. recorded with police station nomal gilgit. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the impugned judgment filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. page issued notice to the resp ondent and the case was heard on ... briefly, the facts of the case are that the complainant muhammad zer shah initially registered an fir no. under sections ppc at about pm on .. at police station nomal gilgit contend ing therein that he had gone to goroo juglote driving dotson no. dr as driver which was loaded with vegetables. the deceased namely ehsanullah was accompanied with him for selling the said vegetables at goroo. after selling the vegetables when the co mplainant was ready to return back to gilgit, a young man met him and sought lift to go with them to gilgit. the complainant promised to give him lift whereafter the young man went some ahead to fetch his bag. the driver and deceased ehsanullah while driving the dotson went behind the young man. in the meantime, a shot was fired from their left side which hit at the neck of deceased ehsanullah. the complainant drive the dotson speedily alongwi th injured ehsanullah and reached at dhq hospital gilgit. consequently, ehsanullah succumbed to injuries, therefore, the offence punishable under section pcc was converted into ppc. after completion of the investigation, chall an of the case against respondent ali ahmed jan was submitted in the learned trial court. the charge against the respondent was filed under section ppc. the respondent accused pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial. the prosecution to prove its case against the page accused examined as many as pws. after the closing of the prosecution evidence, the respondent was examined under section cr.pc. he neither opted to appear on oath nor produced any witness to defend as provided under section () cr.pc. the lea rned trial court after appraising the prosecution evidence and other material on record, hearing both the learned counsels for the respective parties and on proven guilty against the respondent accused, convicted them under section (b) ppc vide judgmen dated ... the relevant portion of the said judgment in para no. is hereby reproduced as under: quote para -. in the light of the above discussions, i, hold that the prosecution has proved guilt of accused ali ahmed jan for the murder of deceased ehsanullah, hence, i, convict accused ali ahmed jan under section (b) ppc read with section (a) of the anti terrori sm act, and sentence him to death. he be hanged by his neck till he be dead. the accused to pay fine of rs. (rupees three hundred thousand only). the amount of fine shall be paid to lrs of deceased ehsanullah under section -a cr. pc. in efault thereof the convict -accused shall undergo imprisonment for years. para -. accused ali ahmed jan is also hereby convicted under section (d) arms ordinance, and sentenced him to imprisonment for years. the weapon of offence pis tol bore is hereby confiscated in favour of the state. unquote the respondent accused being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the judgment of the learned trial court filed criminal appeal no. in the learned chief court. the learned chief court upon hearing accepted the said criminal page appeal by setting aside the judgment of the learned trial court vide impugned ... the operative part of the impugned judgment the learned chief court for convenience is also hereby reproduced as under: quote for the reasons what have been discussed above, we by accepting this appeal set aside the conviction sentence awarded to the appellant convict under section -b ppc read with section (a) of ata while the conviction sentence awarded to the appellant under section a.o. is reduced to undergone period. murder reference no. is disposed of accordingly and these are the reasons of our short order which is rep roduced as under: for the reasons to be recorded latter, we accept this appeal, set aside the conviction sentence to the extent of the offences punishable under section -b ppc read with section -(a) of anti -terrorism act, vide fir no. recorded with police station at nomal gilgit. the sentence awarded to the appellant convict under section a.o. vide fir no. lodged in same police station is reduced to undergone period. resultantly, we direct to release the appellant convict fr om jail of the charges mentioned above provided that he is not required to be detained in any other case. announced ... -sd- judge -sd- the state petitioner feeling aggrieved with the impugned judgment of the learned chief court filed criminal petition in this court for setting aside the said impugned judgment. the learned advocate general submits that the accused was convicted under section anti -terrorism act, by the learned trial court, gilgit on proven guilty for the murder of one ehsanullah (deceased). he also submits that the respondent accused was sentenced to death and he wa also page ordered to pay rs. (rupees three lac only) as fine. the amount of fine was ordered to be paid to the legal heirs of the deceased. per learned advocate general, the respondent accused was also convicted under section (d) arms ordinance, and sentenced him to imprisonment for five () years. he further submits that the respondent accused has been examined under section -h of anti -terrorism act, whereby he has confessed the guilt. he submits that on the pointation of the accused the investigating officer (i.o) has visited the site of occurrence in presence of impartial witnesses which is a strong corroborative piece of evidence. the said piece of evidence is coupled with the confessional statement of the accused recorded under sec tion -h, the guilt against the accused is proved beyond any shadow of doubt. he submits that a -bore pistol was also recovered by the police from the accused as weapon of offence which has been tested in laboratory and a positive report has been receiv ed which is another piece of supportive evidence against the accused. he adds that on appeal filed by the respondent accused and murder reference sent by the learned trial, the learned chief court was partially accepted the said appeal. the sentences award ed to the accused under section (b) ppc read with section (a) of the anti-terrorism act, were set aside whereas sentence awarded under section (d) arms ordinance, was reduced to already undergone. the murder reference no. was decide in negative. the learned advocate general reiterates that the judgment page dated .. the learned trial court was based on material evidence on record whereas the impugned .. the learned chief court is the res ult of non reading and misreading of the prosecution evidence. he submits that the accused has committed an offence of murder of one ehsanullah (deceased). he prays that the judgment the learned trial court may graciously be maintained as the imp ugned judgment the learned chief court is not sustainable. the learned counsel for the respondent was not present inspite of notice issued and served upon him properly, hence, this case was heard in its own merits in accordance with law. the respondent is his pleadings contended that according to the prosecution the complainant was the eye witness of the occurrence and he was examined as pw -. the pw failed to substantiate the case because his statement did not involve the respondent. he further contended that before arresting the respondent, the investigating officer (i.o) was required to conduct identification parade of the respondent but failed to do so rather arrested the respondent as main accused on the basis of his own informatio n. per the contentions of the respondent, the judgment of the learned trial court is not sustainable being passed contrary to the facts and law which according to them has rightly been reversed by the learned chief court vide its impugned judgment which is sustainable. page we have heard the learned advocate general at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned .. the learned chief court as well as the .. the learned a nti- terrorism court at gilgit. the perusal of the record reveals that the rrespondent has committed the murder of the deceased namely ehsanullah beyond any shadow of doubts which has been proved by the prosecution through ocular evidence, circumstantial evidence, confessional statement of the accused, extra -judicial confession of accused, recovery of weapon of offence, fire arms, expert reports, chemical examiner report and death certificate etc. the said evidence has rightly been appreciated by the learned trial court through its .. whereas the learned chief court fell in error by setting aside the judgment of the learned trial court through its impugned judgment. in our considered view, the said impugned judgment is the result of misreading non reading of the evidence and misinterpretation of the law, hence, the same is not tenable in law. in view of the above discussions, we convert this petition into an appeal and the same is allowed. consequently, the impugned .. in cr. appeal no. the learned chief court is set aside whereas the .. in tc no. the learned anti -terrorism court at gilgit is affirmed. the murder reference was answered in negative by the learned chief court is page also set aside and the same is answered in affirmative. the learned trial court is directed to execute its judgment .. in accordance with law. the appeal is allowed in above terms. chief judge. judge.