page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla. no. the state petitioner. qari asif others respondents. present: the advocate general alongwith iqbal deputy advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the state. all the respondent are present in person. date of hearing: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... this criminal petition has arisen out of the impugned in cr. appeal no. and cr. appeal no. the learned chief court whereby the said cr. appeal filed by both the state and the complainant namely sabir ali son of sadiq ali resident of village ganji, tehsil roundu, district skardu were dismissed by upholding the judgment of the learned trial court gilgit. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfied with filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case is heard today. page briefly, the facts of the case are that on .. at about pm the respondent namely qari asif son of saeed khan, arif mehmood son of muhammad yousuf, shah raees son of nusrat wali, jahangir son of abdullah, muzzaffer son of hashmat ullah alias tota, suhail ahmed son of ain ullah, nasrullah, farman son of aman ullah and arsalan son of sher afghan resid ents of eidi muhallah gilgit and other rioters in furtherance of their common object opened fire on a motorcycle rider namely sabir ali son of sadiq ali who was coming from bazzar area to jutial. the bullet hit the leg of above named person and after that the rioters dragged the complainant namely asi abdul majeed p.s. airport gilgit inside the mob and beaten the complainant with fists and butts and also snatched the government official -bore pistol bearing no. alongwith magazine and live cart ridges. initially the fir no. was registered under sections ppc read with section anti -terrorism act, the investigation of the case was conducted by a joint investigation team and challan of the said case was submitted in the court of anti -terrorism court gilgit. the learned trial court transferred the case under section of anti terrorism act, to the learned sessions the learned sessions court entrusted the same to the learned addition al sessions the learned additional sessions .. and pws were summoned for page evidence. the prosecution examined pws in order to prove their case where after the prose cution evidence was closed on ... the statements of respondent under section cr.pc were recorded on ... the respondent accused, however, did not opt to be examined themselves under section () cr. pc in disproof of charge. after hearing the learned counsels for the respective parties, the learned additional sessions .. whi ch was assailed before the learned chief court by filing cr. appeals by both the state and the complainant. the learned chief court upon hearing dismissed the said appeals vide impugned judgment by upholding the judgment of the learned trial court, hence, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that the respondent have been nominated in the promptly lodged fir by the complainant attributing them specific role in commission of the alleged offence. he also submits that we apon of offence i.e. a -bore pistol was also recovered from one of the respondent namely nusratullah against him a separate fir under section arm ordinance was also registered. per learned advocate general, the mob consisting upon people who sna tched the -bore official government pistol alongwith live cartridges from the complainant after thrashing him and giving him sound beating. he further submits that there are sufficient material evidence on record which connect the respondent with the commission of the crim page but the same have not been appreciated and considered by the learned trial court as well as by the learned chief court, hence, the impugned judgment and the judgment of the learned trial court are not tenable in law. he prays that the impugned judgment may graciously be set aside being passed contrary to the facts of the case and law. we have heard the learned advocate general at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned judgment as well as the judgme nt the learned trial court. the learned advocate general also could not point out any infirmity or illegality in the said impugned judgment. in our considered view, the impugned judgment and the judgment of the learned trial court are well reason ed and well founded, hence, no indulgence is warranted into it. in view of the above discussions, we convert this cr. petition into an appeal and the same is dismissed. consequently, the impugned in cr. appeal no. and cr. appeal no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.