page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. the state petitioner. saleem khan others respondents. present:- the advocate general alongwith on-record for the petitioner. all respondent are present in person. date of hearing: ... order. this criminal petition has arisen out of the impugned .. in cr. appeal no. the learned chief court whereby the learned chief court has acquitted the respondent by maintaining the .. in tc. no. the learned anti-terrorism court gilgit. briefly the facts of the case are that an fir was registered in police station gulmit gojal vide fir no. dated .. against the respondent accused on the charge of criminal assault. after completion of investigation challan was submitted in the learned anti-terrorism court gilgit. during the pendency of the case in the learned anti-terrorism, the respondent accused and complainant compounded with the efforts of notables and the elders from both the side. the victim complainant has pardoned the respondent accused. the page learned trial court after recording the statement of jirga and the complainant acquitted the respondent accused from the charges vide ... the petitioner being aggrieved filed criminal appeal no. before the learned chief court which upon hearing was dismissed in limini vide impugned ... the learned advocate general submits that all the other offences against the respondent are compoundable except section of the anti-terrorism act, he lukewarmly submits that the judgments of the learned two courts below are not sustainable and liable to set aside. we have heard the learned advocate general, perused the record of the case file and gone through the judgments of bo th the learned courts below. the learned advocate general could not point out any illegality infirmity in the said impugned judgment. consequently, this petition is converted into appeal and the same is dismissed. consequent thereto the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the petition is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge.