page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla no. the state petitioner. qari muzammil others respondents. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan alongwith -on-record for the petitioner. jahanzeb khan ad vocate and -on-record on behalf of respondents. date of hearing: ... order this criminal appeal has arisen out of the impugned .. in criminal appeal no. the learned chief court whereby the said appeal filed by the petitioner was dismissed in limine by maintaining the .. the learned trial court i.e. the anti -terrorism court no. gilgit -baltistan. the petitioner being aggrieved by and dissatisfi ed with, filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and the case was finally heard today. page briefly the facts of the case are that the accused respondent were charged for commission of offences under sections ,,,,,,,,, and ppc, -l read with section of the anti -terrorism act, vide fir no. of police station goner farm chilas district diamer. later on the parties entered into a compr omise on .. through the notables ulemas of the area. the parties patched up the matter by pardoning the accused in the largest interest of peace tranquility in the area. consequently, their statements were recorded in the learned trial court and compromise was allowed, which was upheld by the learned chief court vide impugned ... the learned advocate general states that some of the legal heirs were not participated while compounding the case. since, no legal heirs came fo rward to challenge the compromise dated .. either in the learned trial court, learned chief court or in this court, the plea taken by the learned advocate general has no force. the learned advocate genera l, otherwise, could not point out any illega lity and infirmity in the judgment order of the learned courts below. in view of the above discussions, we dismiss this criminal appeal. consequently, the impugned .. passed in criminal appeal no. by the learned chief court as well as .. passed in tc. no. by the learned trial court are affirmed. page the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or otherwise?