page in the supreme appellate court gilgit –baltistan, gilgiit. rana muhammad shamim,chief judg. judge. cr.pla no. the stat petitioner. muhammad afzal respondent. charges under section ppc vide fir police station chilas. criminal leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment elf governance) order etc. present: the advocate gen eral gilgit baltistan, gilgit. date of hearing: ---. dr. rana muhammad shamim,cj --- the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan contends that the fir no. was registered under section ppc on the complaint of sher zaman eal brother of deceased rash khan, who became injured with the firing of the unknown persons at the spot near civil depo airport chillas. subsequently, during investigation respondent o1 alongwith other accused namely saif-u-rehman, safeyan and alam zaib were implicated as an accused persons. he further submits that pw muhammad mubashir as stated in his statement under section cr. pc that on the day of the fatef ul incident, he alongwith one razi ullah was present at the khinar area at chillas, at page about, hours accusd saif -u-rehman, safeyan and muhammad afzal petitioner and alam zaib while sitting in the footpath were talking on another and a fter some time co accused saif ur-rehman and alam zaib went thereto. about minutes after their leav ing, accused muhammad afzal and safeyan also left the place in a taxi bearing no. ncp dmr alongwith deceased rash khan towards kkh. the taxi was driven by the petitioner muhammad afzal and at about hours it was informed that rash khan was murdered near timeber depot corroborated by the pw razi ullah whereas, pw mir jahan has stated in his statement under section cr. pc that on the date of the fateful incident he and pw rauf was present at chillas and all of a sudden about he was told that rash khan decease has been murdered near timber depot. they rushed towards the site of occurrence, when they reached at the place of occurrence they saw acccused safeyan and the petition muhammad afzal were coming to chillas bazaar from kkh site in a car driven by the present petitioner. they proceeded ahead and when they reached near graveyards they saw the other co -accused coming towards chillas bazaar from kkh. the same version was also been corroborated by pw rauf as well. the lea rned advocate general further contends that the fir was lodged within minutes of the inciden t. he further contende that crime arm i.e. bore pi stol was also recovered on the pointation of accused alam zaib from his page house concealing in an almara. he a dmitted that he alongwith the co -accused opened fire with his bore pistol no. upon the deceased rash khan. he also contended that crime empties and pistol has recovered from them and the said found matching with the pistol as per report of ballist ic expert. he further submits that the learned trial court has rightly refused bail to the petitoner as the evidence collected by the police during investigation connected the petitoner with the crime. the challan of the said case has already been submitte before the trial court and progress is being made for framing of charge and recording of the evidence is also in progress. he also contended that the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan in r. misc. no. vide .. has granted ail to the respondent no. against the facts law and material available on the record of this case. the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan has not applied its judicial mind to the facts i.e. recovery of crime weapon, which was effected on the pontation of the petitoner, as the same is admissible under order of qanoon -e-shahadat. he further submits that the report of the ballistic expert further supports the prosecution case as the crime empties recov ered and it found matching fired with the recov erd pistol. he further submits that the deceased rash khan was lastly seen with petitioner etc before his murder. there are sufficient materials available to believe that the respondent no. i and co -accused committed the murder of rash khan. therefore, the bail page granted by the learned chief court was required to be cancelled as provide under ection of section cr. pc. we heard the learned advocate general gilgit baltistan, perused the case file and the aterial available on the record. it is admitted position that petitoner and other co accused were not nominated in the fir and admittedly the statements of the pws were also recorded after and unexplained delay of days. there is no eye witness of this brutal murder as well except lastly seen deceased rash khan with petitioner and co -accused. the recovery of the alleged crime weapon although effected on the pointation of the co accused alam zaib but after unexplained delay of days. admittedly no independent person of the locality was associated to witness the search, no explanation for not associating the witness of locality for search of the house of co-accused alam zaib on his pointation, though the same were available. no infirmity and illegality has een pointed out by the learned advocate general gilgit baltistan in the impugned .. in cr. misc. no. the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan. the learned chief court, gilgit -baltistan rightly held that in view of the above,the case of the petitoner has become a case of further inqauiry, subsequently, he was granted bail. in our considered opinion no interference is waranted in the impugned .., page the learned chief court, gilgit baltistan. the leave to appeal is accordingly refused. leave refused. chief