page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. cr. appeal no. in cr. pla. no. the state petitioner. niamat wali son of bachat gopis district ghizer, currently residing at jutial gilgit. respondent. charge under sections -b -a, and ppc vide fir no. police station jutial district gil git. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan for the state. johar ali khan advocate -on-record on behalf of respondent. date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this criminal petition has been directed against the impugned .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan i cr. misc. no. whereby the bail was granted to the respondent who allegedly committed offence under sections -b -a, and ppc. the petitioner feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said impugned order filed this leave to appeal. briefly the facts of the prosecution case are that an fir no. was registered on the complaint of one naveed ahmed son of ahmed wali shah yasin colony jutial on .. in police station jutial gilgit under section -b page and section ppc against niamat wali son bachat gopis currently residing jutial gilgit. it was reported by the complainant that his sister -in-law namely aneeta wife of pervaiz has been abducted by some unknown persons and her ex. fiancé is under suspicious. on he basis of information provided by the complainant party, the police after hectic efforts recovered the abductee and the respondent was arrested and booked under section -a, subsequently of ppc were added to the fir. the respondent admitted their relationship by producing false affidavits of abductee stating therein that she has been divorced by pervaiz ahmed shah. the police started investigation under section cr. pc and during investigation one ahmed ali shah, father -in-law of the lady handed over a piece of small paper, which was containing a mobile no. found in the personal belonging of aneeta nawaz. the said cell number during inquiry investigation of the local police, was found registered in the name of responde nt, which provided a clue to the police to proceed ahead. on .. on spy information, when police conducted a raid in a house at konodas and arrested both the accused red handed from a room of the house. the respondent accused filed application under section cr. pc in the learned trial court for grant of bail which upon hearing was dismissed vide .. on the basis of materials on record, prima faci e, the respondent accused is involved in the commission of the alleged offence. furthermore, the page punishment provided in the offence is life imprisonment and the case of the respondent accused falls within the prohibitory clause of section () cr. pc. the respondent accused being aggrieved by filed criminal misc application no. in the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court which upon hearing was allowed vide impugned ... the petitioner state feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfie with the said order filed this leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal and notice was issued to the respondent accordingly. the case was finally heard today. the learned advocate general submits that the impugned .. the learned chief court is not sustainable. as per materials available on record the respondent accused was caught red handed from a house alongwith the lady co -accused mst. aneeta nawaz. the respondent accused in defence produced nikah nama before the police to prove his innocence. he further submits that on the contrary the prosecution witnesses (pws) in their statements stated that the previous marriage of the abductee mst. aneeta nawaz is intact. he also submits that the prosecution has collected tangible evidences to connect the respondent accused with the commission of the crime. he submits that as regard the offences punishable for death sentence or imprisonment for life or imprisonme nt for ten () years, the question of grant or refusal of bail is to be determine judiciously having regard to the facts and circumstances of each page case. he also submits that the prosecution has satisfied the learned trial court that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the respondent accused has committed an offence falling in the category of prohibitory clauses and the bail was accordingly refused by the learned trial court. he, however, submits that learned gilgit -baltistan chief court while deciding the bail application went into deeper appreciation of evidence and the circumstances as spelled out in the case was neither desirable nor permissible at bail stage. he further submits that the learned gil git-baltistan chief court was under legal obligation to consider all the attending facts and circumstances before releasing the accused on bail. he also submits that in such cases even the offence does not fall within the prohibitory clause section cr.pc, the bail was not allowed. he also submits that even where the name of the accused is not mentioned in the fir and subsequently categoric belated statements of prosecution witnesses (pws) directly implicating the accuse for the commission of offence, the bail was refused in circumstances. he further submits that keeping in view of all the attending circumstances, even fact of delay in recording the statements of prosecution witnesses (pws) cannot be determined at bail stage and tentative assessment of the material on record is to be considered. he reiterated that the bail in such cases even offence does not fall under prohibitory clause was refused. he also submits that there are sufficient material available on ecord that the lady co-accused aneeta nawaz was in the wedlock of her husband page name ly pervaiz ahmed as no proof of divorce has been submitted by the respondent and the lady co -accused. while saying so he relied upon the case laws reported muhammad afzal others the state, scmr, lal muhammad the state, scmr, abdul aziz saleem muhammad another, scmr and imtiaz ahmed others the state pld on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned .. the learned chief court being well reasoned and well founded. he contends that the grounds taken in the petition by the petitioner for cancellation of bail itself are suffici ent to dismiss the same. he also contends that the lady aneeta nawaz after taking divorce from her previous husband contracted marriage with the respondent accused. the respondent accused was living with the co-accused as husband and wife as such the respo ndent has not committed any offence. he further contends that ince the documents produced by the respondent accused before the investigating agency and the authenticity of these documents can be considered after recording of the evidence which makes the ase as one of further inquiry and the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court has rightly granted him the concession of bail. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned .. in cr. misc. no. page the learned chief court as well as the .. the learned trial court gilgit. we are fortified by the judgments cited by the learned advocate general in case titled muhammad afzal others the state (supra), wherein it is held that the courts are under an obligation to consider all the attending facts and circumstances befor deciding to release such accused persons on bail, in case titled lal muhammad the state (supra), it is held that prima facie the case is made out against the petitioner which disentitles him from the grant of the bail after having gone through the record of the case and the investigation papers available on record, the refusing of bail to the accused by the learned trial court or by the learned high court have not violated any legal provisions or principle of law, in case titled imtiaz ahmed othe rs the state (supra), it is held that the approach of the court in view of the scenario prevailing in the country has to be reformation -oriented with the desire to suppress the mischieves. to achieve the said objective the courts have to apply strictly the laws which are designed and intended to eradicate the national evils. the statements of the prosecution witnesses (pws) by comparing with the statement of accused cannot be determined at bail stage, in case titled abdul aziz saleem muh ammad another (supra), it is held that when there is categoric statements of the prosecution witnesses (pws) directly implicating the accused with the commission of offence, the effect of delay in recording statements of prosecution page witnesses (pws) could not be determined at bail stage and the bail granted by the high court was cancelled. similarly, evaluation of the statement of the accused by comparing with the statements of other witnesses is not justifies at this juncture and the petitioner request for bail was refused. in view of the above discussions, in presence of the sufficient materials on record and laws laid down by the the appeal is allowed and the bail granted to the respondent is hereby cancelled. consequent thereto the impugned .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court is set aside whereas the .. in bail application no. the learned sessions the respondent accused, however, would be at liberty to repeat the bail application in the learned trial court after examining of the materials witnesses if so advi sed. the appeal is allowed and the bail is cancelled in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?