page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan cr. misc. no. state .. petitioner shah hussain shah muhammad barkulti yasin district ghi zer accused respondent leave to appeal from the -- the n.a hief court in criminal isc. no. charge under section ,, ,,, and -a,ppc vide fir no. police stati on yasin. present: advocate general for the state. malik shafqat wali, senior advocate, assisted by haji jamal khan, advocate for respondent. date of hearing --. r. the single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan in criminal misc. no. whereby granting bail page infavour of respondent in a case registered under section ,, ,,, -a ppc, with police station yasin vide fir bearing no. dated the brief facts leading to the present petition are that the respondent and his other co -accused allegedly attacked one gullo his daughter mst. naseema and so me other with stones etc. it is also narrated in the fir that the respondent and his party also filed a similar application in the same police station for making an attack them by the present complainant party. the police after holding an inquiry under section cr.p.c. registered the above fir against the respondent and others. the police after registration of the case prepared the challan against present respondent, co-accused muhammad jan, san aullah, abdul murad and hamzah khan, for the above entioned offences, while one accused namely akbar hussain was stated to be released under section cr.p.c. the respondent and other co -accused filed their bail application before the additional sessions -. the present respondent having been aggrieved with the order additional sessions filed bail page application in the chief court gilgit -baltistan which came to be the learned -baltistan who, vide impugned order granted bail to the respondent holding that the case being one of further inquiry within the meaning of () cr.p.c, the respondent is entitled for grant of bail. the above order has been challenged by the state through learned advocate general with prayer for re -calling cancellation of bail granted to the present respondent. we have heard the learned counsel for the parties, the learned advo cate general seeks cancellation of bail on the ground that a prima facie case existed against the respondent, he was specifically named in the fir with a specific motive for causing injuries to mst. nas eema and gullo but the learned chief court in disregar of principles for grant and refusal of the bail has enlarged the respondent on bail. he contended that the act of the respondent was brutal in nature, he even did not spare a teenage girl who had come to rescue her father, sustained severe head injuries, remained in hospital for a period of six months and lost her senses and jumped into the river. he said the other victim of the occurrence gullo had also received grievous injurious as per medical report. he learned advocate general lastly contended tha a specific and overt act had been attributed to the respondent in the statement recorded under .p.c. beside recovery of crime article on his pointation. on the other hand the learned counsel for the respondent while vehemently supp orting the impugned order went on saying that the case against the respondent was one of further inquiry within the meaning of () cr.p.c. the offence did not fall within the prohibitory clause of section cr.p.c. the parties had filed cross complai nts against each other and it was yet to be determined as to who was aggressor, other co accused ha either been let off under section cr.p.c. released on bail as such cancellation of bail at this stage would be violative of law. at the end of the a rguments the learned counsel for respondent submitted that the prosecution has failed to submit challan of the case as provided under section cr.p.c as such the respondent otherwise was entitled for grant of bail and the learned chief court has rightly granted bail to the respondents. having heard the learned counsel for the parties and gone through available recor and impugned order, we have co me to the conclusion that four witnesses namely shah khan, zohra, zahid gull and abdul khan, beside two injured persons categorically charge the respondent for causing injuries to gullo and mst. nas eema, their statement are supported by medical evidence and recovery of crime articles on the pointation of the respondent. moreover the respondent has acte in a brutal and ruthless manner, one of the victim namely page mst. nas eema a teenage girl who was shifted to pims islam abad in a critical condition, she remained hospitalized for period of six months and underwent series of operations even than could not be recovered, resultantly she lost her sense and jumped into river. according to medical report her skull was fractured due to severe head injury. the offence committed by the respondent prima facie fall within the mischief of section and (v) which rovide maximum sentence of and years r.i. respectively which fall within the prohibitory clause of section cr.p.c. the learned the case of respondent was not a case of further inquiry as contemplated under section () cr.p.c. and as discussed above. so far as no submission of challan is concerned the learned advocate general submitted that due to non availability of medical report the challan could not be submitted in the trial court. we have found that the copy of challan is placed in the file, however we direct the i.o. of the case to submit the same within seven () days of this order if not su bmitted earlier. for what has been discussed above, this petition is converted into appeal and allowed, the impugned order is set aside and concession of bail granted to the respondent by chief court vide -- is re -called. however our above observations are page tentative in nature and the trial ourt shall proceed with the case uninfluenced by this order and shall dispose of the same within six months. the respondent will be at liberty to move fresh bail application in case the trial is no completed within the above period.