page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan chief judge, cr. appeal no. tota jan appellant the st ate respondent cr. appeal no ibrar other appellant the state respondent charge under section () harabah offence against property (hudood) ordinance read with section ppc fir no. police station cantt gilgit. leave to the judgment order of division bench of chiefcourt dated -- present: advocate for the appellant along with, deputy advocate general for the tate. date of hearing: --. ... and by leave arise fr om the -- divisional bench of chief court gilgit baltistan in criminal appeal no. and whereby the learned chief court maintained the sentence awarded by additional sessions .i.r. no. under section harraba which was later on substitute by section ppc. page brief facts giving ise to the present appeals are that on sajjad hussai a.s.i. incharge police check post danyore lodged a complaint with police station air port gi lgit alleging therein that on -- one faisal shahzad driver of a truck reported the matter to danyore police chowki that on the night of occurrence he along -with co -driver rahimullah and cleaner of truck no. lsc babar nawaz was on his way to awalpindi from hunza and when his truck reached near a place kno wn as juglote gah he having seen the ro ad blocked with stones, directed the cleaner to remove the stones and on his direction the cleaner got down from the truck and started removing the stone from the road, in the meanwhile three armed persons suddenly appeared and started aerial firing and directed to switch off the light of the vehicle and robed a sum of rs. and a wrist watch and ring from him and rs. from the co -driver. on his report fir no. was registered with police station air port gilgit under section hudood ordinance after completion of necessar investigation the police report was submitted in anti terrorist court gilgit in terms of section cr.p.c. after recording the prosecution evidence the case was transferred to sessions after com pletion of the proceeding the additional session .p.c. for a terms of seven years r.i. each and imposed fine of rs. -. the appellant filed separate appeals against their convict ion while the state preferred a revision enhancement of sentence awarded to appellant by trial court. the learned division bench of the chief court vide impugned -- dismissed the appeals against conviction and also the revision for enhancement of sentence. we have heard the learn ed counsel for appellant and a. for the state at length, the learned counsel for the appellant at the very out set submitted that the trial court as well as the appellate court ha ve based their finding on the identification parade conducted in side police station premises under supervision of a naib tehsildar and two witnesses identifie rs allegedly identified co-accused namely saeed page hasan and ibrar as culprits while no identification parade was conducted to the extent of appellant tota jan. he further contended that there was no other evidence to connect the appellant with the present crime except called identification test as such both the learned courts below have seriously erred in conv icting the appellant in absence of sufficient evidence. on the other hand the learned a dvocate general controverted the above submission made by learned counsel for appellant and vehemently opposed the appeal. he submitted that two witness namely baba nawaz and faisal shahzad had identified the appellant saeed hassan and ibrar during identification parade and also during court proceeding. he stressed that the evidence of these two witnesses was sufficient for conviction of the said two appellant so far as the other appellant namely tota jan is concerned the prosecution had successfully recovered the incriminating articles and looted cash from his possession. he went on saying that the trail court as well as chief court ha ve rightly convicted the appe llants. after hearing the arguments on both sides and perusal of the record we have come to the conclusion that the prosecution case solely rested on the identification parade as the other evidence regarding recovery of looted amount an the weap ons has already been discarded rejected by the learned court below as such it need not be discussed. admittedly the occurrence took place durin a dark mid night in a place fa from the local population, according to the statement of driver and cleaner i.e pw- and when they reached in the area of jaglote gah at about hours where they found the road having been blocked by the rocks on the road, stopped the tru ck and pw on the directives of pw got down from the truck in order to remove the stones rocks, mean while accused opened aerial firing and looted an amount of rs. from the pocket of pw and articles from pw -. however pw disclosed at the time of examination in chief before the tr ial court that the looted amount was rs. only and there after the accused fled away from the scene of occurrence and the complainant and witness es proceed towards police check post to lodge the complain t. the witness also deposed before the trail court that it was dark on the night of occurrence a nd there was no moon light. the head lights of the truck page were also stated to be off when the accused came at the site of occurrence and the only source of identification of accused according to witnesses was dim light of upper side light of truck. the rosecution examined witnesses and as stated earlier the trial court as well as the -, and pw -. pw and are driver and conductor of the truck who allegedly identified the appellant during the identification test carried out in police station airport. while pw is a naib tehsildar in whose supervision the iden tification parade was conducted. it is strange that the statement of co -driver of truck namely rahimullah pw- was neither discussed nor considered by the two courts below. the said witness despite of his presence at the time of occurrence was not called by the prosecution to participate the identification parade. this witness during re -examination categorically state that i do not charge the accused present in court the only piece of evidence on the basis of which the appellant were convicted is the identification parade conducted under the supervision of pw in the premises of police station air port, admittedly the appellant ibrar and saeed were arrested by the police on but their identification parade was held on this delay of days in identification parade goes un -explained. according to rule of police rules and guid elines laid own by superior judiciary of pakistan the identification parade is required to be carried out as soon as possible without any delay and soon after the arrest of suspect. but the prosecution failed to carryout the same soon after the arrest of the suspect in the present case. the identification parade conducted under supervision of pw who happened to be a naib tehsildar at the time of holding of identification parade, the prosecution examined him as pw who deposed that on the directi ves of sdm gilgit, he conducted the identification parade in police station airport on -- wherein appellant saeed and ibrar were identified by pw and and after completion of process of identification parade he prepared report memo ex -pw- on cr oss examination he admitted that he was naib tehsildar at that time, participants dummies were not wearing similar dress, their ages were also different, page some of dummies were clean shaved and others having beard, identifier were present in the office of s. h.o prior to his arrival in police station and suspect could also be seen in the lock up from the window of office of s.h.o. he though did not mention the number of dummies mixed in the identification parade however according to ex pw- the number of du mmies is ten. while the number of identifier in column no. form –() is mentioned as four. in absence of any corroborative piece of evidence the prosecution should have carried out the identification parade in accordance with procedure criteria laid down in section rule of police rules or guidelines laid down by superior courts of the country but unfortunately the prosecution adopted a novel procedure un warranted in law while holding the identification parade. no law authorizes an investig ator to hold the identification parade in side the police station especially when the suspects accused were visible from the office of sho, where the identifiers were made seated and under these circumstances the possibility to have seen the accused by the identifiers before identification parade cannot be ruled out. the concerned sho or investigating officer was required to detain the accused appellant in jail without wasting a single moment and without showing them to identifiers. the investigating agenc instead of holding the identification parade in a fair and transparent manner adopted a self styled procedure for identification parade, inside the premises of police station in presence of naib tehsildar instead of a magistrate first class. the du mmies intermingled with two accused in the joint identification parade as per ex -pw- were ten while as per section (d) or dummies of similar dress and of the same religion, age and social status are required to be intermingled with one suspect acc used but the same is not done in the present case. the identifier also failed to attribute any role to the accused suspect at the time of identification parade. we have also gone through the judgment of chief court the learned chief court has based its finding mainly on the identification parade and has relied upon the statement of pw and and has held that these two witness being honest and disinterested their statements are reliable, without de eply minuting the statement of these two witness es it is sufficient to discard their statement quo identification of the page appellant in a dark night merely on dim light of the truck especially when the witnesses were in a condition of fear to their lives. even if it is presumed that the said witnesses are symbol of truth their statements are not sufficient for conviction because of non transparent rather illegal procedure adopted by the investigator while conducting the identification parade as discussed above and in absence of other material. in the light of a bove discussion we have come to the conclusion that the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the appellant beyond reasonable doubt. it is well established principle that every doubt which may arise would go in favour of accused as such convict ion of the appellant in given circumstances is not sustainable. consequently we accept these appeals, set aside the impugned judgment of lear ned chief court dated -- and -- additional session our hort order by virtue of which the appeal were accepted and the appellant were released is treated as part of this judgment. chief