page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. c. misc no. in cpla. no. ubaid -ur-rehman muqaddam mujeeb -ur-rehman gais pain tehsil chilas district diamer. petitioner. govt. of gilgit -baltistan through chief secretary, gilgit baltistan. minister education chairman nomination board gilgit baltistan, gilgit. secretary education member nomination board gilgit baltistan, gilgit. deputy secretary education gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. director colleges member nomination board gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. director education gilgit region member nomination board gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. secretary health member nomination board gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rehmat alam jahangir khan rehmat jan sub engineer water power division chilas district chilas. respondents. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, against the impugned .. the gilgit baltistan chief court in writ petition no. the impugned judgment date .. may be set aside being against the facts, and also against the siprit of judgment of gilgit baltistan chief court dated .. passed in writ petition nos. and whereby the gilgit -baltistan chief court held that the submission of the learned counsel for the petitioner regarding nomination of a candidate in a province cannot be acceded to, so the same shall not only deprive the candidates who have got far more marks in entry test than the present petitioners. page present: advocate general gilgit -baltistan along with date of hearing: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... the instant petition has been ari sen out of the impugned judgment in writ petition no. dated .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. the brief facts of the case reveal that the petitioner applied nomination against the reserved seats in the medical colle ges of punjab, ajk and kpk for the academic year -. the answering respondent vide their provisional selection list nominated the name of above petitioner in punch medical college rawala kot ajk but his name was dropped in the subsequent list. the final list of nomination was made impugned by one waqar ali shah through writ petition no. before the learned divisional bench of gilgit -baltistan chief court, wherein the concerned department alongwith eleven () other candidates who were duly ominated in different institutions against the reserved medical seats were arrayed as respondents. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner in pursuance of the .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court also filed writ petition no. with the prayer that the petitioner may be treated page equally among equals which upon hearing was dismissed vide ... the petitioner feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied filed this leave to appeal before this court. this court vide its .. granted leave to appeal. we have heard the learned counsel for the petitioner at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the .. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court. the petitioner admittedly qualified on merit amongst others, however were adjusted against the allocated quotas of punjab, azad jammu kashmir (ajk) and khyber pukhtunkhuwa (kpk) for the academic years -. whereas he was deprived of admission in mbbs though he was placed equally among equals. since the matter pertains to the career of a student, we partially allow this petition with the direction that the government of gilgit -baltistan without affecting the reserved seats quota of medical colleges for the year -, the petitioner may also be adjusted accommodated by requesting chief minister punjab in any medical college of punjab in the year sessions. this court appreciates the punjab government in accommodating the students of this region in medical colleges, engineering, it and agriculture other universities. we trust that in case gilgit baltistan government approaches to the -e-ala page punjab and requests him for such admission of the petitioner in the next session, he would be surely got -admitted. this petition is disposed off in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?