page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. under objection no. the state through police station city astore. petitioner. shafiq son of daulat khan resident of domosar ahmadabad gorikote astore presently at judicial lockup. respondent. present:- the advocate general alongwith deputy advocate general for the petitioner. date of hearing: .. order. this leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned .. passed in cr. misc. no. by the learned chief court whereby the said cr. misc filed by the respondent was allowed by granting bail to him, henc e, this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general submits that the respondent accused was nominated in fir no. at police station city astore under section -a(iii) read with section ppc by attributing him specific ro le in commission of offence. he also submits that the weapon of offence has also been recovered from the respondent on his pointation. per learned advocate general, prime facie, the respondent is involved in the offence and there are sufficient materials on record against the respondent which connects him with the commission of the alleged. he submits that the learned sessions misc no. filed by the respondent. consequently, bail has been granted to the respondent by the learned chief court through its impugned order page dated .. which is not sustainable and the same is required to be set aside. we have hear the learned advocate general at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned order the learned chief court. the perusal of the record transpires that punishment for the charges against the respondent does not fall withi the prohibitory clause of section cr.pc, hence, the learned chief court has rightly granted bail to the respondent vide its impugned .. which in our considered view is well reasoned and well founded. furthermore, the learned advoc ate general could not point out any illegality and infirmity in the said impugned order, therefore, no indulgence is warranted into it by this court. in view of the above, we are not inclined to grant leave to appeal in this case; therefore, the leave is refused by affirming the impugned .. passed in criminal miscellaneous no. by the learned chief court. the leave to appeal is refused in above terms. chief judge. judge.