page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit. under objection no. chief judge. judge. the state. petitioner appellant. sharafat hussain king asghar shah amphary gilgit. rahmat ullah muhammad musa majini muhallah, gilgit. haider abbass afzal old pologround, gilgit. akhtar abbass mayoon hospital road, gilgit. nasir ali jafar ali sajja dia mohallah, gilgit. hamid hussain malik ashdar majini mohallah, gilgit. ashiq muhammad wali sami mohallah, gilgit. respondent accused. charge under section ppc with section -l and section of the anti terrorism act, vide fir no. dated .., registered with police station city gilgit. leave to appeal under section of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order against the order decision dated .. division bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan in cr. appeal no. of whereby the learned division bench of the chief court has dismissed the appeal of the petitioner appellant in limine. present: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan. date of hearing: .. order rana muhammad arshad khan, cj: this petition has been directed against the judgment .. the learned division bench of the chief court, gilgit -baltistan in cr. appeal no. whereby, the appeal of the petitioner herein was dismissed. page the brief facts of the case are that the case fir no. dated .. was registered with police station city, district gilgit under section ,, and ppc read with section of the anti-terrorism act, on the conclusion of the investigation by the concerned police officer, the report under section cr.pc was prepared, while placing the names of hamid hussain, haidar abbas and ishfaq in column no. and the names of akhtar abbas, rehmat ullah, sharafat hussain and nasir ali in column no. of the aforesaid report, which was submitted in the court of competent jurisdiction for its trial. the learned trial court on the conclusion of the trial, acquitted all the accused persons of the charges leveled against them vide ... the prosecution, feeling aggrieved, called in question the said judgment before the chief court gilgit baltistan. the learned division bench of the chief court gilgit -baltistan vide judgment .. dismissed the appeal. hence this leave to appeal. the learned advocate general gilgit -baltistan has been heard at a considerable length. had presented this petition on ... it is pertinent to mention over here that the instant petition was time bared by about sev enteen days. an application for condonation of delay was also filed. the office on receipt of the cr. leave to appeal raised the following objections: i. the instant petition is not signed by advocate general. ii. the concise statement sig ned by aor is found duplicate as well as page no. of the petition is also duplicate, the same are required to be replaced. iii. the pages no. and are required to be replaced by better copies. page the aor resubmitted the petition in hand after removing the objection no. only and had not removed the objection no. of the objection memo dated ... the resubmission of the petition after removal of all the objections raised by the office as required to be resubmitted within a period not exceeding six weeks as contemplated in order v, rule () of the supreme appellate court rules, but the aor resubmitted the petition with the lapse of about two months and twenty six days. order v, rul () reads as follows. order v. business in chambers the powers of the court in relation to the following matters may be exercised by the registrar: () () () () () () ..., () application for time to plead, for production of documents and generally relating to conduct of cause, appeal or matter and to allow from time to time any period or periods not exceeding six weeks, in the aggregate, for doing any other act necessary to make a cause, petition or appeal compl ete. () the plain reading of order v, rule () makes it abundantly clear that the petition was to be resubmitted within stipulated period, as it has been enshrined in order v, rule () i.e. before expiry of six weeks. it is observed that he advocates on record do not adhere to the legal provisions applicable to the petitions filed in this court. the office has correctly placed the matter before the bench of this court as under objection case no. the resubmission of the petition is awfully time bared, whereas, the petition itself was filed with the delay of about seventeen days. this is a petition against the acquittal of the respondent by both the courts below. a valuable right has already been accrued to them, which, at this juncture, cannot be taken away because of the lapse on the part of state, which is fully resourceful to deal their matters in accordance with law. the application for condonation of delay page has also been perused carefully but no plausible ground has been given for condonation of delay, particularly, when the petition in hand was filed, while assailing the judgments of both the courts below, against the acquittal of the respondents. in view of what has been discussed above, the petition alongwith the applicatio for condonation of delay is dismissed. the objections raised by the office are upheld. chief judge. judge.