page in the supreme appellate court, gilgit -baltistan gilgit (appellate jurisdiction) chief judge. judge. under objection no. provincial government through chief secretary giglit -baltistan others............................... petitioner abir khan and others. respondent and civil leave to appeal no. fc muhammad arif, belt no. fia gilgit and others.............................. petitioner abir khan and others. respondent present: for the petitioners: the advocate general gilgit -baltistan muhammad saleem khan advocate aor in cpla no. date of hearing: .. petitions for leave to appeal under article of government of gilgit -baltistan order, against the impugned .., the honorable gilgit -baltistan services tribunal in civil appeal no. for setting aside the imp ugned judgment decree dated .. passed in civil appeal no. page converting these petitions for leave to appeal into appeals and accepting the appeals. judgment syed arshad hussain shah, cj: the instant petitions for leave to appeal have arisen out of a single .., the learned gilgit -baltistan services tribunal. the learned services tribunal decreed the service appeal and set aside the office order no. sst gzr () dated ... the brief facts the case are that present respondent namely, () abir khan sadiq, () muhammad yaqoot shah murad shah, () ijlal hussain ghazam, () iqbal hussain asman shah and () bakhtiyar khan shakoor khan, were appointed in he year a foot constables. they during their service have completed their lower course. the petitioner in cpla namely () muhammad arif, () fida ali, () muhammad afzal, () ali rehmat and () momin ur rehman were appointed later -on except fc ali rehmat who was appointed in they too have completed the lower training course. the department issued a list showing the seniority of the officials. as per list c, the respondent no. herein were shown senior to the petitioner in cpla th police department, vide office order no. sst gzr -() dated .., promoted the petitioner in cpla he present respondent no. to filed an appeal before the gilgit -baltistan service tribunal against the office order no. st gzr -() dated ... the learned service tribunal vide .. decreed the service appeal and set aside the office .. above and directed the respondent no. to in service appeal to promote the resent respondent no. to in cpla no. to the posts of hcs bps with all back benefits. the petitioner in both the connected cplas felt aggrieved and dissatisfied with the judgment of the learned service tribunal, hence this petition. page the earned advocate general appeared on behalf of the provincial government and submitted that learned service tribunal passed the impugned .. is not maintainable and is liable to be set aside as the same is passed against the facts and record of the case. he submits that service appeal filed by the respondent appellant before service tribunal was time bared but the service tribunal ignored this important aspect while passing the judgment, therefore, the judgment is liable to be set aside. he contends the petitioner respondent were promoted in accordance with law, police rules and seniority maintained on the basis of efficiency hence the .. is liable to be set -aside. he states that no civil servant can claim prom otion on the basis of seniority and there are other requirements which are mandatory therefore the impugned judgment may be reversed. he submitted that the impugned judgment is based on erroneous reason, therefore, not tenable in the eyes of law and liable to be set aside. he, therefore, prayed that this cpla may be converted into appeal and the same may be allowed by setting aside the .. the learned service tribunal. we have heard the learned advocate general at a considerable length and have given anxious consideration to his arguments. we have gone through the record of the case very carefully with his able assistance. the most important question involved in the present case is the determination of seniority of the parties. the perusal of the record transpires that the respondent appellant i.e abir khan was appointed on .. and his date of birth is .., muhammad yaqoot shah was appointed on .. and his dat of birth is .., ijlal hussain was appointed on .. and his date of birth is .., iqbal hussain was appointed on .. and his date of birth is .., bakhtiyar khan was appointed on .. and his date of birth is .. the petitione rs respondent i.e. muhammad arif was appointed on .. and his date of birth is .., fida ali was appointed on .. and his date of birth is .., momin -ur-rehman was appointed on page .. and his date of birth is .., muhammad afzal was appointed on .. and his date of birth is .. and ali rehmat was appointed on .. and his date of birth is ... therefore the all the respondent in cpla no. on the basis of their date of appointment, are senior to the petitioner in the said cpla except ali rehmat who was appointed in as far as the case of muhammad afzal is concerned, he too was appointed on .. alongwith the respondent in cpla no. but all the respondent were senior in age then him, therefore, having been appointed on the same date, on the basis of being younger in age, he too is junior to the respondent in cpla no. the case of ali rehmat will be further discussed in the following paras. the supreme court of pakistan in the case reported as scmr has held as under: on no principle executive authority could be held invested direct appointment, to interference with the veste rights of civil servants who on basis of earlier selection and regular appointment, got seniority over those who were selected later the next question relates to the eligibility to be considered for promotion. as far as the promotion to the post of hc is concerned, statedly, the completion of lower course is considered mandatory. the respondent appellant abeer khan and muhammad yaqoot shah completed their lower course on .., ijlal hussain completed his lower course on .., iqbal hussain completed his lower course on .. and bakhtiyar completed his lower course on ... hile the petitioner respondent muhammad arif, fida ali, momin -ur-rehman and ali rehmat completed their lower course on .. whereas muhammad afzal com pleted his lower course on ... therefore all the petitioner and respondent in cpla were eligible to be considered for promotion as hc. it is pertinent to note that the seniority of the individuals will not be calculated from the date of ompletion of course rather the same will be determined from the date of their initial appointment. the supreme court of pakistan in scmr has held as under: page police department divided the course into three batches and thereafter determined senior ity of candidates in accordance with their batches instead of considering all the course mates of the batches as a whole, thus seniority list prepared was a clear violation of rule .() of police rules, ---no distinction could be made between the batches as admittedly they all passed on the same day, therefore, they would be considered to have passed simultaneously and as such combined result of all course mates had to be taken into consideration as per rule .() of police rules, the next uestion relates to the issuance and observance of seniority list. in the present case list and were made basis for promotion but the same cannot be taken as seniority list. the department has admitted that this list is a confidential list and is kept ith the senior superintendent of police of the concerned district. the basic requirement of the seniority list is that a tentative seniority list must be circulated between the employees and then their objections may be considered. after due consideration, the final seniority list may be circulated so that the genuine grievances of the employees could be addressed and such like litigation may be avoided. this court the next question relates to the grant of promotion on the basis of acts of efficiency or gallantry etc. such personnel may be encouraged by way of certificates, awards, rewards etc but grant of promotion is not justified. the supreme court of pakistan has observed in the case titled shahid pervaiz v. ejaz ahmad scmr as under: acts of gallantry did not justify out -of-turn promotions as they necessarily lead to impingement of the fundamental rights of fellow officers in terms of blocking their smooth progression of carriers and impinging their respect and honour. the grant of out of turn promotion may injure the colleagues unjustly. the court further observed as under: out of turn promotion was not only against the constitution but also against the injunctions of islam. each out of turn promotion necessarily dam aged the career of a corresponding deserving officer. the performance of duty with due diligence and efficiency deserves appreciation but cannot be reciprocated by granting promotions page while declining lawful rights of others. the promotion to any civil ervant can only be granted on the basis of seniority cum fitness and after completing legal formalities as mandated by the law. this court in its various judgment has affirmed this view on the subject. the citizens of gilgit -baltistan have an absolute right of equal protection of law and to be treated in accordance with law un der article of the government of gilgit -baltistan order, this is a fundamental right and this court is the custodian of fundamental rights of the people of gilgit baltistan. therefore, no action detrimental to any aspect of one life can be taken against anyone except in accordance with law. no person should be deprived of any of his lawful right. every arbitrary, unreasonable or an action contrary to the law, performed by executive or other public bodies, is amenable to the judicial review of the courts to be scrutinized on the touchstone of law on the subject. in the present case the respondent have been deprived of their lawful right of promotion without any of their fault. there is nothing adverse on record against them and if two equally fit and qualified employees are under consideration by the promotion oard, then the one who is senior amongst them would be given preference. the board is also required to record the reason for such supersession. putting the above legal propositions in juxtaposition with the facts of the case in hand we are of the conside red view that the gilgit baltistan service tribunal has rightly appreciated the law on the subject but has overlooked the seniority of ali rehmat. some petitioner herein were junior to the respondent herein and all the petitioner and respondent herein have completed their requisite course for promotion the post of hcs (bps ). therefore, in the light of principle of seniority on the basis of date of joining of service and senior in age in case of same date of joining of service, abir khan, muhammad yaqoot, ijlal hussain, iqbal hussain and ali rehmat are senior to muhammad arif, momin -ur-rehman, muahmmad afzal and bakhtiyar khan. the office order no. sst ghr -() dated 1st march, is set aside. the department is directed to promote abir khan, page muhammad yaqoot, ijlal hussain, iqbal hussain and ali rehment accordingly. in view of what has been discussed above, the leave in under objection case no. is refused, ho wever, cpla no. is converted in to appeal and is partially allowed. he .. the learned service tribunal is upheld with above modification. chief