page user manual for lhc attendance system lahore high court, lahore page user manual lhc attendance system step install app lahore high court ess) from play store (for android users). step log in using your credentials, with your cnic as the email (e.g., and the password sent via sms to your registered mobile number after obtaining approval from the step after logging in, the user can update or change the password by opening the 'change password' screen, entering the old password, and etting a new password. step after successfully logging in, your dashboard screen will be displayed, featuring the option to 'swipe to check -in' for marking your attendance. page user manual lhc attendance system step after marking attendance, a pop -up message will appear stating attendance marked successfully step to view your attendance time, navigate to the attendance option or icon displayed on the dashboard. step the attendance option displays a screen showing the monthly attendance, including date-wise attendanc times. page user manual lhc attendance system step to mark your check -out time, simply 'swipe to check -out' using the option displayed on the dashboard screen. step after checking out, attendance check -out time will be displayed on the attendance screen. step to view your team's attendance check in check -out times, please go to the 'my team' screen. page user manual lhc attendance system step after accessing the 'my team' screen, you will see a list of all team members. select any team member to view their attendance time. step the attendance check -in and check -out times for the selected team member for the month will be displayed in a date -wise format. page user manual lhc attendance system user manual for web portal step login using your credentials, with your cnic as the email (e.g., the default password sent via sms to your registered mobile number and enter captcha code. step admin user will have rights to print out reports after applying different available filters.