page in the supreme appellate court gilgit-baltistan, gilgit. chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla. no. usman ali son of farman ali, robi hotel tehsil district gilgit. petitioner. vc kiu others respondents. present:- ali nazar khan advocate- on-record for the petitioner. date of hearing: ... date of announcement of judgment:-.. judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition has arisen out the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court whereby the sai writ petition filed by the petitioner was dismissed being meritless, hence, this leave to appeal. this court vide .. issued notices to the respondent and the case was finally heard on .. and the judgment was reserved. briefly the facts as stated by the petitioner were that he was an employee of the karakoram international university since till he relinquished from the post he lastly held. during the contract employment of the petitioner at saudi arabia, the respondent terminated the services of the petitioner under kiu page while not considering the application of the petitioner for lien and extraordinary leave for three years. the petitioner being aggrieved filed writ petition no. in the learned chief court which upon hearing was dismissed vide impugned .., hence, this leave to appeal. the learned counsel for the petitioner submits that at the time of filing the writ petition in the learned chief court, he with bonafide mistake has not impleaded the federation of pakistan as proforma respondent. consequently, he moved civil misc. no. in this court to implead the federation of pakistan provided under article of the constitution of pakistan as respondent. he further submits that the respondent illegally and unlawfully terminated the services of the petitioner. he also submits that the respondent did not fulfill the provisions of section and of the civil service act, while terminating the services of the petitioner. per learned counsel no proper procedure was adopted by the respondent by terminating the services of the petitioner as no show cause notice was ever served upon the petitioner, hence, the petitioner was condemned unheard. the petitioner his service has accumulated days in his leave account. consequently, he applied for leave which was not considered by the respondents. similarly the petitioner applied for lien which was also not considered malafiedly and the services of the petitioner were wrongfully and illegally terminated which is page against the spirit of the university service rules. he adds that the learned chief court fell in error by dismissing the writ petition of the petitioner, therefore, the impugned .. is not sustainable and liable to be set aside to meet the ends of justice. on the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent supports the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. contends that the petitioner has left the karakoram international university (kiu) without obtaining ex-pakistan extraordinary leave for such period to proceed abroad. he also contends that the university in question had given no commitment to offer services as claimed on his return from saudi arabia. per learned counsel the respondent were granted three days casual leave. the petitioner, however, left the university and remained absent for a period of year months and days w.e.f .. to .. reportedly to serve in other university. the respondent issued various notices to the petitioner to join his service as he was continuously absent from his duties. the petitioner did not comply with the said notices consequently the respondent were constrained to terminate the services of the petitioner on account of his long and willful absence. he contends that there is no record on the file that the petitioner was allowed to proceed abroad by granting any type of leave from his job except forwarding his application and granting casual leave for three days () days. the page question of petitioner lien in the university does not arise during his service with the king fahad university of petroleum and minerals saudi arabia. both the universities neither had any administrative connections nor the petitioner was allowed any type of deputation. the rules of both the universities do not provide any provision for such type of lien. per learned counsel the learned chief court has rightl dismissed the writ petition so filed by the petitioner vide impugned .. which according to the learned counsel for the respondent is well reasoned and well founded. he also contends that since the petitioner has not impleaded the federation of pakistan while filing writ petition in the learned chief court, therefore, at this stage it can not be rectified and impleaded as prayed for. the civil misc. no. is liable to be dismissed. we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the file and gone throu gh the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court. admittedly, the petitioner had left the karakoram international university (kiu) at his own without obtaining long leave to serve abroad. there is nothing on record that the petitioner was allowed to proceed abroad by granting him any leave and on deputation as claimed by the petitioner. the learned counsel for the petitioner could not point out any illegality or infirmity in the impugned order. in our considered view the page impugned order is well reasoned and no interference is warranted into it. in view of the above discussions, this petition is converted into an appeal and the same is dismissed. the petitioner, however, may approach the concerned department(s) or competent court of law for redressal of his grievances, if he so advised, consequent thereto the impugned .. in writ petition no. the learned chief court is affirmed. the listed civil misc. no. is also dismissed. the appeal is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?