page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan at gilgit. c.p.l.a no. chief judge. mr.. .vice chancellor karakorum international university gilgit -baltistan. registrar karakoram international university, gilgit -baltistan. petitioner mst.kaneez fatima ghulam muhammad danyore, tehsil and district gilgit. respondent. leave to appeal under ar ticle of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment and self governance order against the judgment -- the chief court gilgit baltistan. present: mir akhlaq hussain advocate on behalf of the petitioners. mr.sharif ahmed adv ocate for the respondent. date of hearing: --. judgment:- mr. .this leave to appeal is directed against the --, the learned divisional bench of the chief court gilgit -baltistan, whereby the learned divisional bench has held that, the judgments this court in cpla no. and judgment of this court in review petition no. are applicable to the case of the present respondent and the present responde nts is entitled to get benefit extended by both the judgments to the petitioner in the cited cases. the facts of the case are as such that, the present respondent was appointed as lecturer in english (bps -) on contract basis for six months. this cour during pendency of above cited review petition issued an interim order against the present petitioners, the same is reproduced as under: page however in the larger interest of newly a ppointed lecturers in bps on contract basis and already appointed lecturers petitioner on contract basis whose service has not been extended on expiry of terms and relieved without assigning any reason shall be considered and adjusted in the relevant ubject they are already selected till the final disposal of the petition. the present petitioner complied this order and also applied the same in favour of the present respondent and her contract services were continued till final adjudic ation of the case by this court vide appointment letter dated april -, thereafter the petitioner turned the contract services of the respondent into visiting faculty w.e.f --. the present petitioner admitted the fact ual grounds taken by the respondent in her writ petition as well as in the leave to appeal before this court, but they defended as that, since the present respondent was not party to the leave to appeal adjudicated before this cou rt, neither she was party to the review petition adjudicated by this court, nor she was party in writ petition adjudicated by the chief court gilgit -baltistan, as such she is not entitled to get any benefit extended by this court, to the petitioner throu gh the above cited judgments. the learned counsel for the petitioner has also taken plea of estoppel against, as in his opinion the present respondent has accepted and extended her services as visiting faculty in the department without raising any objectio in due time. we, after hearing the counsel for the parties, have reached to the conclusion that, the case in hand moves around the judgments adjudicated page by this court and cited above in this judgment. therefore, we have gone through the cited judgments to ascertain whether the instant case comes within the ambit of the previous judgments of this court and also to understand if the present respondent has an title to get any benefit, comes out of the judgments cited and discussed in the impugned judgment. we for this purpose reproduced here under the relevant para of the judgment this ourt in the review petition no. the rule of fair treat ment and natural candidates who have qualified the test and interview on the basis of aggregate marks have acquired a legitimate right of selection on their own merits have been dealt with accordingly. similarly the candidates who were appointed on contract basis in the prescribed manner would be entitled to be considered for regular appointment in their own right on the basis of their contract service. the rational test of this judgment reveals that, it is a judgment in rem and not personnam as the last part of the above cited para of the judgment indicates that, this court has deliberately used the word candidate which covers all the candidates coming within the ambit of the criteria fixed by this court in the said judgment, whether they are party to the judgment or not. in fact this court has settled a scheme to follow by the petitioner whenever they are going to make appointment of lecturers in the institution. the referred judgment of this court can not be said to be limited for accommodation of the candidates who were petitioner in the judgment but it bounds the present petitioner to take care of it, in all the cases of appointment coming in its purview. the last point, raised by the coun sel for the petitioner as to the application of principle of estoppel against the respondent, having no substance to attract us to hold it against the respondent for the reasons that page principle of estoppel is a rule of evidence and not a cause of action a source of title. it debars a party from aprobating and reprobating a statement given by, in respect of a specific fact. principle of estoppels can not be extended to prevent an action of law even if a party has allowed or consented by conduct any auth ority to pass an order to take an action, if the same order or action taken by the authority is against law or without lawful authority. in the instant case the petitioner turned the contract services of the present respondent into visiting faculty witho ut lawful authority in derogation of the above cited judgment this court, which is having binding force. we relied upon the following case law to reach into this conclusion. pld sc page scmr page plj sc pld sc page and scmr the upshot of the above discussion is that, the impugned judgment the learned divisional bench of the chief court gilgit baltistan suffers from no infirmity of law as such leave to appeal is refused to grant. no order as to cost. announced. -- chief