page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan gilgit rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla. no. wajid ali ghulam nabi resident of village chongra astore and others. petitioner murtaza son of khowaja khan resident of chongra astore. respondent present: advocate alongwith advocate -on-record for the petitioners. advocate on behalf of the respondent. date of hearing:- --. date of detail judgment: -.....--. judgment javed iqbal, j......... this leave to appeal has been directed against the judgment decree learned single bench of chief court gilgit vide civil 2nd appeal no. dated --, whereby the learned single bench of chief court set aside the judgment decree learned district no. dated --. brief facts of the case, according to the plaint, the suit property measuring kanal marlas under khasara no. which is inheritance of father of respondent plaintiff. father of respondent plaintiff namely khawaja khan has got this property through exchange from the father of the petitioner plaintiff no. to namely ghulam muhammad. this case proper ty was still in name of ghulam muhammad in revenue record respondent plaintiff mortgaged the disputed land to petitioner defendant page no. for rs. (rupees ten thousand) in the yea for twenty years. respondent plaintiff in year respondent plaintiff offered the mortgaged money rs. to petitioner defendant for redemption, which is refused by petitioner defendant. petitioner defendant denied the mortgaged and presen ted a fake sale deed, which is registered as registry no. dated -- and mutation no. with collusion revenue authorities. the petitioner defendant in his written statement dated -- denied almost all averments of the plaint and aken the defense that, respondent plaintiff has sold the suit land with a sum of rs. (rupees fifteen thousand) on -- and the petitioner defendant is in possession of suit land since as owner. trial court in the light of pleadings ramed as many as issues including relief. the trial court after leading the evidence by both the parties decreed the suit of respondent plaintiff vide judgment decree dated --. this decree judgment assailed by the petitioner defendant before lea rned district the learned district dated --. having been dis -satisfied and aggrieved with the order judgment of learned civil 2nd appeal, the learned chief court single bench after hearing both parties set aside the findings of learned district dated -- which is reproduced herein as under, to meet the lacunas the learned 1st appellate court managed to invoke the provisions contained in the order rule and got recorded the statement of record keeper of the registrar astore, who was summoned alongwith the record in sheer violation of provision of order rule page according to which it is mandatory to record reason for summoning the additional witness the relevant order rule is rep roduced as under, production of additional evidence in appellate court () the parties to an appeal shall not be entitled to produce additional evidence, whether oral or documentary, in the appellate court. but if (a) the court from whose decree the appeal is preferred has refused to admit evidence which ought to have been admitted, or (b) the appellate court requires any document to be produced or any witness to be examined to enable it to pronounce judgment, or for any other substantial cause, the appellate court may allow such evidence of document to be produced, or witness to be examined. () wherever additional evidence is allowed to be produced by an appellate court, the court shall record the reason for its admissio n. it is crystal clear that perusal of the above 2nd proviso of the rule that the appellate court must record the reasons to the admission of additional evidence, but the order of the 1st appellate court is altogether silent on. consequently, the learned single bench of chief court gilgit, accept the appeal, filed by the petitioner plaintiff and maintained the judgment decree of trial court, dated --. we have heard the learned counsel for petitioner defendant contended that, learned chief court has misread and non-reading of evidence as well as documents produced by parties, and ignored the law points, also contended that, civil 2nd appeal is not maintainable in the eyes of law, and suit of plaintiff respondent is time barred. page on the other hand, the learned counsel for respondent submitted that the findings of learned civil therefore the same be maintained. we minutely scrutinized and examined the record available on case file, as well as arguments advanced by learned counsel by both the parties, also examined the impugned judgment decrees of learne courts below. in our considered view, that, judgment decree civil in civil suit no. dated -- and civil 2nd appeal no. dated --, decided by learned single bench of chief court gilgit -baltistan, are well reasoned as no infirmity and illegality was pointed out by learned counsel of petitioner. this petition was consequently converted into an appeal and same was dismissed. these are the reasons for our short --. the appeal is dismis sed in above terms.