page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, registry branch skardu. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. wazir ali wazir ghulam abbas wazir ghulam mohammad wazir ghulam ali. wazir mohammad kazim wazir abdul hussain wazir shujaat hussain wazir hussain bashir ahmed mohammad iqbal mohammad hassan mst batool roqia moha mmad hassan wazir gond pari kharmang district skardu. petitioner plaintiff residents of mohallah bottichow pari, tehsil kharmang, district skardu through representatives ghulam abbas abdul hassan ghulam abbas abdullah mohalla bottichow kharmang pari, presently residing at jafari mohallah skardu. respondent defendants. grant of leave to the judgment .. the chief court gilgit -baltistan camp at skardu whereby the -baltistan has set aside the judgment order of the learned district court skardu dated .. and maintained the civil court kharmang .. as the learned trial court rejected th petitioner suit under order rule cpc throughout. present: sr. advocate alongwith aor for the petitioners. advocate for the respondents. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... order. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this leave to appeal has been directed against the impugned page judgment .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court whereby the same revision petition of the petitioner was dismissed while setting aside the judgment decree dated .. in cfa no. the district judge, skardu whereas the judgment decree dated .. of the learned trial court was maintained. learned senior counsel for the petitioner submits that the respondent filed a civil suit no. in the court of learned civil he further submits that the respondent plaintiff are not entitled to get irrigation water for their land from wazir gond and goi shanjaq from nallah gorkon during night time through channel monikhrong and channel goi shanjaq the learned civil court framed seventeen () issues in the said suit and upon hearing partially decreed the suit in favour of the etitioners while maintaining the .. issued by the then political agent baltistan region vide ... he further submits that during pendency of the suit no. parties referred the case for arbitration and in this regard the suit was disposed off on .. on the basis of arbitrator award dated .. after making the same as rule of the court. the petitioner being aggrieved with the arbitrator page award dated .. challenged the same before the learn ed district .. while remanding the case to the learned trial court for disposal on merit. the respondent being aggrieved filed civil revision no. before the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan wherein the said civil revision filed by the respondent was accepted vide .. while setting aside the .. and maintaining the judgment decree dated .. of the learned trial court, hence, this leave to appeal. he finally submits that the impugned .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan is the result of misconception of law and misreading non -reading of the facts of the ase, therefore, the same is not sustainable and liable to be set aside whereas the judgment decree dated .. the learned district on the other hand .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan. he submits that the same has been passed in accordance with the law and facts of the case while the .. the learned district page we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the case file and gone through the impugned judgment .. the learned chief court gilgit -baltistan as well as the judgments decrees the courts below. we are in a greement with the learned counsel for the petitioners. consequently, we converted this petition into an appeal and the same was allowed vide our short ... the case was remanded back to the learned trial court kharmang to hear and decide the same afresh on its own merit. consequent thereto the impugned judgment .. in civil revision no. the learned chief court gilgit baltistan is set aside whereas the .. in cfa no. the lear ned district there were the reasons for our ... the petition is disposed off in above terms. chief judge. judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?