page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil misc. no. civil appeal. no. in cpla. zamindaran -e-samigal bala and pain through its representatives:- i. haji nowsher khan son of habibullah. ii. qadeer wali son of zardul wali shah. iii. shah room son of hajat. iv. shehzada khan son of mushraf khan samigal bala and pain tehsil daril district diamer. firdus khan son of lagshar. abdul qayyum son of jahan shah. abdul shakoor son of muhammad gul. saleemullah son of wahab khan samigal bala and pain tehsil daril district diamer. petitioners. zamindaran -e-dodoshal through its repre sentatives. i. jahangir shah numberdar son of numberdar challo khan. ii. yasin son of nadil shah. iii. moeen shah son of subbat shah dodoshal tehsil daril district diamer. collector land acquisition deputy commissioner diamer. assistant collector assistant commissioner daril district diam er. chairman wapda through general manager wapda diamer basha dam district diamer. respondents. leave to appeal under article of gilgit -baltistan (empowerment self governance) order, read with enabling articles of constitution of islamic republic of pakistan against the impugned judgment .. of the learned chief court wherein the learned division bench of chief court maintained the impugned judgment order of the referee .. wherein the referee land acquisition act directed the petitioner no. to deposit the sum of rupees rs. in page the referee court on or before .. whereas the above compensation amount received by the petitioner no. to from the proforma respondent no. under award no.la (dbd) dated .. as owners and the 1st appeal of the impugned .. the referee district ju dge diamer was upheld by the chief court. present: malik shafqat wali senior advocate alongwith -on-record on behalf of the petitioners. date of hearing: ... date of detail judgment: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj .. this petition has been arisen out of the impugned .. in civil misc. no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court whereby the civil misc no. filed by the present petitioner was dismissed by upholding the judgment .. the referee court district firdous khan lagsher rs. -, -, and total rs., before this court on or before ... the petitioner answering respondent being aggrieved page filed this leave to appeal with the plea to set aside the concurrent findings both the courts below. the precisely narrated facts of the case are that the petitioner no. to had received amounting of rs. (rupees five crore seventy thousand only) on account of compensation of the disputed land on ... the respondent feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the paym ent of compensation filed reference petition under section of the land acquisition act, before the collector district diamer for presentation the same before the learned referee court district .. in reference petition no. the present petitioner answering respondent filed civil misc. no. before the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court calling in questio the judgment order the learned referee court district diamer which upon hearing was dismissed vide .. while maintaining the judgment of the learned referee court district diamer. the petitioner being aggrieved filed petitio for leave to appeal. this court vide .. granted leave to appeal while suspending the operation of the impugned .. of the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court and the case was finally heard on .. and upon hearing the appeal of the petitioner was dismissed vide short ... page much before the filling of the reference petition before the learned collector district diamer. he also submits that the referenc petition filed by the respondent referred to the learned referee court district he further submits that the award no. lac (dbd) dated .. was collector deputy commissioner diamer and on the same day the partial compensation amount rs. paid to the petitioner no. 02to as owners of samigal bala and pain and remaining compensation amount rs. was in the account of collector deputy commissioner diamer, this amount has not yet been paid to the petitioner because of civ il litigation pending before learned chief court as ell as the learned civil court at chilas. he also submits that the land acquisition act, does not provide any mechanism of recovery of refund of compensation amount to whom it is paid by the collec tor but the referee court as well as the learned division bench chief court gilgit -baltistan have no jurisdiction under section () land acquisition act, to direct the petitioner to deposit the page compensation amount so received by the petitioner no. to from the collector deputy commissioner diamer on .. as owners as such the findings of both the courts below are without jurisdiction and against the law, as such not maintainable and liable to be set aside. he finally submits that the pr oper forum for recovery of compensation amount paid by the collector deputy commis sioner diamer to the petitioner no. to is through filing of recovery suit before the learned civil court of competent jurisdiction. he contends that the learned referee court is not a proper forum to recover the compensation amount if illegally paid by collector before filling of reference under section of land acquisition act, as such the impugned judgments of the courts below are without jurisdiction, ab-initio null and void and liable to be set aside. on the other hand .. in civil misc. no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgment .. the referee court district he contends that both the learned courts below have passed the judgments in accordance with law and facts of the case, hence, th same are required to be maintained being well reasoned and well founded. no interference is warranted into its in the interest of page we have heard the learned counsels for the respective parties at length, perused the record of the ase file and gone through the impugned .. in civil misc. no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgment .. the referee court district consequently, we converted this petition into an appeal and the same was dismissed vide our short .. and these were the reasons for the same. consequent thereto the impugned .. in civil misc. no. the learned gilgit -baltistan chief court as well as the judgment .. the referee court district however, at this stage the learned counsel for the petitioner request that instead of depositing the cash by the petitioners, the bank guarantee of the same equal amount may pleased ordered to be accepted by the learned trial court. the request is allowed subject to the furnishing bank guarantee by the schedule bank (s) duly stamped good for payments be accepted by the learned referee court district of the .. passed in reference petition no. page the petition is dismissed in above terms. chief judge. judge. whether the case is fit to be reported or not?