page in the supreme appellate court gilgit -baltistan, gilgit. rana muhammad shamim, chief judge. judge. civil appeal no. in cpla no. zarai taraqiati bank petitioners. sher ali baig others respondents. civil appeal no. in cpla no. employees of zarai taraqiati bank petitioners. federation of pakistan respondent. present: civil appeal no. taqi ahmed, assistant vice president, policy regulations department ztbl head office, islamabad. ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the respondents. civil appeal no. ali nazar khan advocate -on-record for the petitioners. taqi ahmed, assistant vice president policy regulations department ztbl head office, islamabad for the respondents. date of hearing: ... date of announcement: ... judgment. dr. rana muhammad shamim, cj..... these petition have arisen out of the impugned .. the learned chief court whereby the writ petition no. page filed by the respondent employees of ztbl was partially accepted to the extent of grant of allowance of as special pay. both the respective parties being aggrieved by the impugned order filed separate petition for leave to appeal s. this court vid .. granted leave to appeal and the case is heard on ... since, both the petitions have been directed against the impugned order, therefore, the same are, heard together and decided through this common judgment. briefly, the facts of the case are that the respondent filed a writ petition before the learned chief court contending therein that they are permanent employees of zarai taraqiati bank limited. they are entitled for grant of un -attracted area allowance as well as for special pay on their running basic pay w.e.f .. as per directive of the prime minister islamic republic of pakistan contained in finance division (regulation wing) government of pakistan vide notification dated ... on the contrary, the authorities of the agriculture development of pakistan (adbp) contended that the bank in question was established under the agriculture development of pakistan ordinance, under section (ii)(e) (f) and the approval of federal government was man datory in respect of service matter of employees. the federal government vide a gazette notification dated .. and in pursuance of the provisions of the banks (nationalization) act, the board of directors of the bank was declared competent to determine personnel policies with regard to page remunerations and benefits thereto in respect of their employees. the board of directors in exercise of its powers under section of the banks (nationalization) act, approved the revision of basic pay of staff with effect from .. by increasing the same up to subsequently, the special pay was rationalized by revising the same from to at the existing pay of the employees. later on, he agriculture development bank of pakistan (adbp) was transformed into a public limited company with the name zarai taraqiati bank limited (ztbl) with effect from .. in the light of the agriculture development bank of pakistan (adbp) (reorganization conversion) ordinance, the said bank has already been placed under bank nationalization act, th rough a gazette notification by repealing the agriculture development bank of pakistan (adbp) ordinance, per averments of the petitioner emp loyees of ztbl, after issuance of the above referred gazette notification, the instructions of the federal government are no more binding upon the zarai tara qiati bank limited and the special pay was allowed on running basic pay with effect from till .. whereafter the same is being paid at a frozen fixed amount till to date. as per contentions of the ztbl the impugned order passed on the conceding statement of the learned counsel for the bank in question which has no legal value. the conceding statement can be given on facts but not permissible on legal questions. page vice president, ztbl submits that initia lly special pay was allowed to all the federal government employees serving in the then northern areas now re-nomenclated as gilgit -baltistan. the federal government vide a gazette notification dated .. and in pursuance of the provisions of the banks (nationalization) act, the board of directors of the bank was declared competent to determine personnel policies with regard to remunerati ons and benefits thereto in respect of their employees. consequently, the board of directors in exercise of its powers under section of the banks (nationalization) act, approved the revision of basic pay of staff with effect from .. by incr easing the same up to he submits that resultantly, the special pay was rationalized by revising the same from to at the existing pay of the employees. later on, the agriculture development bank of pakistan (adbp) was transformed into a public limited company with the name zarai taraqiati bank limited (ztbl) with effect from .. in the light of the agriculture development bank of pakistan (adbp) (reorganization conversion) ordinance, the said bank has already been placed under ba nk nationalization act, through a gazette notification by repealing the agriculture development bank of pakistan (adbp) ordinance, he further submits that after issuance of the above referred gazette notification, the instructions of the federal government are no more binding upon the zarai taraqiati bank limited and the special pay was allowed on running page basic pay with effect from .. till .. is being paid at a frozen fixed amount till today. he submits that after the revisi on of the pay and sala ry of the employees of the ztbl, the basic pay has been increased by hence, the special pay has been rationalized and special pay has been a dded in the pay of the employees of the ztbl who are getting the same as usual. he submits that the learned chief court fell in error while passing the impugned order, therefore, the same is not sustainable. he prays that the impugned order the learned chief court may graciously be set aside. on the other hand, the lear ned counsel appearing on behalf of he respondent employees contends that in the year the prime minister islamic republic of pakistan vide directive bearing no. f.js(imp)pmdir dated approved special pay of of the basic pay to all emp loyees including both local and non local serving in the northern areas now gilgit -baltistan. in pursuance of the said directive, the kashmir affairs northern areas division, government of pakistan issued a notification vide no. na -ii- dated .. with the concurrence of finance division (regulation wing) government of pakistan, wherein the special pay was granted to federal government employees serving in gilgit -baltistan. he also contends that in pursuance of the said notification, the etitioner no. allowed the grant of special pay equal to of basic pay to the employees vide circular no. pd (p)() i dated ... later on, the page finance division (regulation wing) vide letter no. f. () r. dated .. further clarified to the effect that the special pay equal to of basic pay be treated as pay and is reckonable for calculation of allowances related to the pay and same was endorsed by the petitioner no. vide circular no. pd(p) () i dated ... per learned counsel, as per recommendations of award of the fourth wage commission for clerical and non clerical staff of banks and financial institutions, published by government of pakistan in the official gazette on ... the pet itioners vide circular no. pd -circular no. dated .. even finance division government of pakistan letter no. f.() bkg.v dated .. regarding the revision of pay allowances of the officers executives, continued the payment of unatt ractive area allowance at the existing rate of of the basic pay to the employees. he contends that on .., the petitioner no. issued the impugned circular vide no. pd wherein under para of the said impugned circular, special pay wa renamed as personal pay and it was reduced from to of the revised basic pay. furthermore, under para of the said impugned circular unattractive area allowance was also reduced from to per learned counsel, on .., the petit ioner no. issued another circular bearing no. pd wherein under para (iii), the unattractive areas allowance was frozen at the existing level as on .. and the employees who belonged to page the cadre of officers and above were disentitled the unattractive area allowance on the pretext of having domicile of gilgit -baltistan while the facility of unattractive area allowance was restricted to non-local employees. he submits that the respondent employees of ztbl made series of appeal represe ntations to the petitioner ztbl since the issuance of both the impugned circulars and finally made individual appeals on .. to the petitioner no. wherein they prayed for the withdrawal of the said impugned circulars but the response from the pe titioners ztbl was is still awaited. he contends that the impugned circulars issued by the petitioner ztbl are void ab -initio, illegal without lawful authority and against the fundamental right of the employees. the petitioner cannot overrule the directi ves of the prime minister of pakistan, therefore, the said impugned circulars are not sustainable. he prays that the impugned order the learned chief court is required to be modified by including unattractive hard area allowance at the rate of including the grant of special pay at the running basic of the employees of ztbl to meet the ends of ... we have heard the learned counsels for the re spective parties at length, perused the material on record and gone through the impugned order the learned chief court a well as the impugned circular issued by the petitioner ztbl dated ... the perusal of the said notification so issu ed by the page petitioner ztbl, it transpires that the federal government vide a gazette notification dated .. and in pursuance of the provisions of the banks (nationalization) act, has empowered the board of directors of the bank to determine ersonnel policies with regard to remunerations and benefits in respect of their employees. the board of directors in exercise of its powers under section of the banks (nationalization) act, approved the revision of basic pay of staff with effect fr om .. by increasing the same up to consequently, the special pay was rationalized by revising the same from to at the existing pay of the employees. similarly, the agriculture development bank of pakistan (adbp) was transformed into a public limited company with the name zarai taraqiati bank limited (ztbl) with effect from .. in the light of the agriculture development bank of pakistan (adbp) (reorganization conversion) ordinance, the said bank has already been placed u nder bank nationalization act, through a gazette notification by repealing the agriculture development bank of pakistan (adbp) ordinance, in our considered view, the ztbl in pursuance of the above notification has rightly rationalized the pay, allowance other renemuneration of its employees and no indulgence is warranted into it by this court. the learned chief court fell in error while allowing special pay to the employees of zarai taraqiati page bank limited on the basis of no objection given by the counsel of ztbl. the conceding statement on law can not be accepted. in view of the above discussions, civil appeal no. in cpla no. filed by the petitioner i.e. the zarai taraqiati bank limited (ztbl) is allowed whereas civil appeal no. in cpla no. filed by the employees of the bank in question is dismissed. consequently, the impugned .. passed in writ petition no. by the learned chief court is set aside by maintaining the notification dated .. issued by zariai tar aqiati bank limited (ztbl ). before arting with this judgment we appreciate assistant vice president, policy regulations department ztbl head office, islamabad who presented his case like an experienced lawyer with clarity and legal wisdom. he has properly assisted this court as all the legal questions put to him by this court were rightly answered by him with legal force. the aforementioned appeals are disposed -off in above terms. chief judge. judge.